Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix




J.K.Rowl­ing-​Har­ry­Pot­terandthe­OrderoftheP­hoenix­FULL­Ripped­by­many,Com­piled­byT`

Chap­ter 1 - Dud­ley De­ment­ed

Chap­ter 2 - A Peck of Owls

Chap­ter 3 - The Ad­vance Guard

Chap­ter 4 - Num­ber Twelve, Grim­mauld Place

Chap­ter 5 - The Or­der of the Phoenix

Chap­ter 6 - The No­ble and Most An­cient House of Black

Chap­ter 7 - The Min­istry of Mag­ic

Chap­ter 8 - The Hear­ing

Chap­ter 9 - The Woes of Mrs. Weasley

Chap­ter 10 - Lu­na Love­good

Chap­ter 11 - The Sort­ing Hat's New Song

Chap­ter 12 - Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge

Chap­ter 13 - De­ten­tion with Do­lores

Chap­ter 14 - Per­cy and Pad­foot

Chap­ter 15 - The Hog­warts High In­quisi­tor

Chap­ter 16 - In the Hog’s Head

Chap­ter 17 - Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​four

Chap­ter 18 - Dum­ble­dore's Army

Chap­ter 19 - The Li­on and the Ser­pent

Chap­ter 20 - Ha­grid's Tale

Chap­ter 21 - The Eye of the Snake

Chap­ter 22 - St Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries

Chap­ter 23 - Christ­mas on the Closed Ward

Chap­ter 24 - Oc­clu­men­cy

Chap­ter 25 - The Bee­tle at Bay

Chap­ter 26 - Seen and Un­fore­seen

Chap­ter 27 - The Cen­taur and the Sneak

Chap­ter 28 - Snape's Worst Mem­ory

Chap­ter 29 - Ca­reer Ad­vice

Chap­ter 30 - Grawp

Chap­ter 31 - O.W.L.s

Chap­ter 32 - Out of the Fire

Chap­ter 33 - Fight and Flight

Chap­ter 34 - The De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies

Chap­ter 35 - Be­yond the Veil

Chap­ter 36 - The On­ly One He Ev­er Feared

Chap­ter 37 - The Lost Prophe­cy

Chap­ter 38 - The Sec­ond War Be­gins

Chap­ter 1 - Dud­ley De­ment­ed

The hottest day of the sum­mer so far was draw­ing to a close and a drowsy si­lence lay over the large, square hous­es of Priv­et Drive. Cars that were usu­al­ly gleam­ing stood dusty in their drives and lawns that were once emer­ald green lay parched and yel­low­ing -for the use of hosepipes had been banned due to drought. De­prived of their usu­al car-​wash­ing and lawn-​mow­ing pur­suits, the in­hab­itants of Priv­et Drive had re­treat­ed in­to the shade of their cool hous­es, win­dows thrown wide in the hope of tempt­ing in a nonex­is­tent breeze. The on­ly per­son left out­doors was a teenage boy who was ly­ing flat on his back in a flowerbed out­side num­ber four.

He was a skin­ny, black-​haired, be­spec­ta­cled boy who had the pinched, slight­ly un­healthy look of some­one who has grown a lot in a short space of time. His jeans were torn and dirty, his T-​shirt bag­gy and fad­ed, and the soles of his train­ers were peel­ing away from the up­pers. Har­ry Pot­ter's ap­pear­ance did not en­dear him to the neigh­bors, who were the sort of peo­ple who thought scruffi­ness ought to be pun­ish­able by law, but as he had hid­den him­self be­hind a large hy­drangea bush this evening he was quite in­vis­ible to passers-​by. In fact, the on­ly way he would be spot­ted was if his Un­cle Ver­non or Aunt Petu­nia stuck their heads out of the liv­ing-​room win­dow and looked straight down in­to the flowerbed be­low.

On the whole, Har­ry thought he was to be con­grat­ulat­ed on his idea of hid­ing here. He was not, per­haps, very com­fort­able ly­ing on the hot, hard earth but, on the oth­er hand, no­body was glar­ing at him, grind­ing their teeth so loud­ly that he could not hear the news, or shoot­ing nasty ques­tions at him, as had hap­pened ev­ery time he had tried sit­ting down in the liv­ing room to watch tele­vi­sion with his aunt and un­cle.

Al­most as though this thought had flut­tered through the open win­dow, Ver­non Durs­ley, Har­ry's un­cle, sud­den­ly spoke.

'Glad to see the boy's stopped try­ing to butt in. Where is he, any­way?'

'I don't know,' said Aunt Petu­nia, un­con­cerned. 'Not in the house.'

Un­cle Ver­non grunt­ed.

'Watch­ing the news …' he said scathing­ly. 'I'd like to know what he's re­al­ly up to. As if a nor­mal boy cares what's on the news -Dud­ley hasn't got a clue what's go­ing on; doubt he knows who the Prime Min­is­ter is! Any­way, it's not as if there'd be any­thing about his lot on our news — '

'Ver­non, shh!' said Aunt Petu­nia. The win­dow's open!'

'Oh - yes - sor­ry, dear.'

The Durs­leys fell silent. Har­ry lis­tened to a jin­gle about Fruit 'n' Bran break­fast ce­re­al while he watched Mrs. Figg, a bat­ty cat-​lov­ing old la­dy from near­by Wis­te­ria Walk, am­ble slow­ly past. She was frown­ing and mut­ter­ing to her­self. Har­ry was very pleased he was con­cealed be­hind the bush, as Mrs. Figg had re­cent­ly tak­en to ask­ing him round for tea when­ev­er she met him in the street. She had round­ed the cor­ner and van­ished from view be­fore Un­cle Ver­non's voice float­ed out of the win­dow again.

'Dud­ders out for tea?'

'At the Polkiss­es',' said Aunt Petu­nia fond­ly. 'He's got so many lit­tle friends, he's so pop­ular

Har­ry sup­pressed a snort with dif­fi­cul­ty. The Durs­leys re­al­ly were as­ton­ish­ing­ly stupid about their son, Dud­ley. They had swal­lowed all his dim-​wit­ted lies about hav­ing tea with a dif­fer­ent mem­ber of his gang ev­ery night of the sum­mer hol­idays. Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well that Dud­ley had not been to tea any­where; he and his gang spent ev­ery evening van­dal­is­ing the play park, smok­ing on street cor­ners and throw­ing stones at pass­ing cars and chil­dren. Har­ry had seen them at it dur­ing his evening walks around Lit­tle Whing­ing; he had spent most of the hol­idays wan­der­ing the streets, scav­eng­ing news­pa­pers from bins along the way.

The open­ing notes of the mu­sic that her­ald­ed the sev­en o'clock news reached Har­ry's ears and his stom­ach turned over. Per­haps tonight - af­ter a month of wait­ing - would be the night.

'Record num­bers of strand­ed hol­iday mak­ers fill air­ports as the Span­ish bag­gage-​han­dlers' strike reach­es its sec­ond week -

'Give 'em a life­long sies­ta, I would,' snarled Un­cle Ver­non over the end of the news­read­er's sen­tence, but no mat­ter: out­side in the flowerbed, Har­rys stom­ach seemed to un­clench. If any­thing had hap­pened, it would sure­ly have been the first item on the news; death and de­struc­tion were more im­por­tant than strand­ed hol­iday­mak­ers.

He let out a long, slow breath and stared up at the bril­liant blue sky. Ev­ery day this sum­mer had been the same: the ten­sion, the ex­pec­ta­tion, the tem­po­rary re­lief, and then mount­ing ten­sion again… and al­ways, grow­ing more in­sis­tent all the time, the ques­tion of why noth­ing had hap­pened yet.

He kept lis­ten­ing, just in case there was some small clue, not recog­nised for what it re­al­ly was by the Mug­gles - an un­ex­plained dis­ap­pear­ance, per­haps, or some strange ac­ci­dent… but the bag­gage-​han­dlers' strike was fol­lowed by news about the drought in the South­east ('I hope he's lis­ten­ing next door!' bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non. 'Him with his sprin­klers on at three in the morn­ing!'), then a he­li­copter that had al­most crashed in a field in Sur­rey, then a fa­mous ac­tress's di­vorce from her fa­mous hus­band ('As if we're in­ter­est­ed in their sor­did af­fairs,' sniffed Aunt Petu­nia, who had fol­lowed the case ob­ses­sive­ly in ev­ery mag­azine she could lay her bony hands on).

Har­ry closed his eyes against the now blaz­ing evening sky as the news­read­er said, '- and fi­nal­ly, Bungy the budgie has found a nov­el way of keep­ing cool this sum­mer. Bungy, who lives at the Five Feath­ers in Barns­ley, has learned to wa­ter ski! Mary Dorkins went to find out more.'

Har­ry opened his eyes. If they had reached wa­ter-​ski­ing budgeri­gars, there would be noth­ing else worth hear­ing. He rolled cau­tious­ly on to his front and raised him­self on to his knees and el­bows, prepar­ing to crawl out from un­der the win­dow.

He had moved about two inch­es when sev­er­al things hap­pened in very quick suc­ces­sion.

A loud, echo­ing crack broke the sleepy si­lence like a gun­shot; a cat streaked out from un­der a parked car and flew out of sight; a shriek, a bel­lowed oath and the sound of break­ing chi­na came from the Durs­leys' liv­ing room, and as though this was the sig­nal Har­ry had been wait­ing for he jumped to his feet, at the same time pulling from the waist­band of his jeans a thin wood­en wand as if he were un­sheath­ing a sword - but be­fore he could draw him­self up to full height, the top of his head col­lid­ed with the Durs­leys' open win­dow. The re­sul­tant crash made Aunt Petu­nia scream even loud­er.

Har­ry felt as though his head had been split in two. Eyes stream­ing, he swayed, try­ing to fo­cus on the street to spot the source of the noise, but he had bare­ly stag­gered up­right when two large pur­ple hands reached through the open win­dow and closed tight­ly around his throat.

'Put - it - away!' Un­cle Ver­non snarled in­to Har­ry's ear. 'Now.' Be­fore - any­one - sees!'

'Get - off - me!' Har­ry gasped. For a few sec­onds they strug­gled, Har­ry pulling at his un­cles sausage-​like fin­gers with his left hand, his right main­tain­ing a firm grip on his raised wand; then, as the pain in the top of Har­ry's head gave a par­tic­ular­ly nasty throb, Un­cle Ver­non yelped and re­leased Har­ry as though he had re­ceived an elec­tric shock. Some in­vis­ible force seemed to have surged through his nephew, mak­ing him im­pos­si­ble to hold.

Pant­ing, Har­ry fell for­wards over the hy­drangea bush, straight­ened up and stared around. There was no sign of what had caused the loud crack­ing noise, but there were sev­er­al faces peer­ing through var­ious near­by win­dows. Har­ry stuffed his wand hasti­ly back in­to his jeans and tried to look in­no­cent.

'Love­ly evening!' shout­ed Un­cle Ver­non, wav­ing at Mrs. Num­ber Sev­en op­po­site, who was glar­ing from be­hind her net cur­tains. 'Did you hear that car back­fire just now? Gave Petu­nia and me quite a turn!'

He con­tin­ued to grin in a hor­ri­ble, man­ic way un­til all the cu­ri­ous neigh­bours had dis­ap­peared from their var­ious win­dows, then the grin be­came a gri­mace of rage as he beck­oned Har­ry back to­wards him.

Har­ry moved a few steps clos­er, tak­ing care to stop just short of the point at which Un­cle Ver­non's out­stretched hands could re­sume their stran­gling.

'What the dev­il do you mean by it, boy?' asked Un­cle Ver­non in a croaky voice that trem­bled with fury.

'What do I mean by what?' said Har­ry cold­ly. He kept look­ing left and right up the street, still hop­ing to see the per­son who had made the crack­ing noise.

'Mak­ing a rack­et like a start­ing pis­tol right out­side our -

'I didn't make that noise,' said Har­ry firm­ly.

Aunt Petu­nia's thin, horsy face now ap­peared be­side Un­cle Ver­non's wide, pur­ple one. She looked livid.

'Why were you lurk­ing un­der our win­dow?'

'Yes - yes, good point, Petu­nia! What were you do­ing un­der our win­dow, boy?'

'Lis­ten­ing to the news,' said Har­ry in a re­signed voice.

His aunt and un­cle ex­changed looks of out­rage.

'Lis­ten­ing to the news! Again?'

'Well, it changes ev­ery day, you see,' said Har­ry.

'Don't you be clever with me, boy! I want to know what you're re­al­ly up to - and don't give me any more of this lis­ten­ing to the news tosh! You know per­fect­ly well that your lot -

'Care­ful, Ver­non!' breathed Aunt Petu­nia, and Un­cle Ver­non low­ered his voice so that Har­ry could bare­ly hear him,'- that your lot don't get on our news!'

'That's all you know,' said Har­ry.

The Durs­leys gog­gled at him for a few sec­onds, then Aunt Petu­nia said, 'You're a nasty lit­tle liar. What are all those -' she, too, low­ered her voice so that Har­ry had to lip-​read the next word, - owls do­ing if they're not bring­ing you news?'

'Aha!' said Un­cle Ver­non in a tri­umphant whis­per. 'Get out of that one, boy! As if we didn't know you get all your news from those pesti­len­tial birds!'

Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment. It cost him some­thing to tell the truth this time, even though his aunt and un­cle could not pos­si­bly know how bad he felt at ad­mit­ting it.

'The owls… aren't bring­ing me news,' he said tone­less­ly.

'I don't be­lieve it,' said Aunt Petu­nia at once.

'No more do I,' said Un­cle Ver­non force­ful­ly.

'We know you're up to some­thing fun­ny,' said Aunt Petu­nia.

'We're not stupid, you know,' said Un­cle Ver­non.

'Well, that's news to me,' said Har­ry, his tem­per ris­ing, and be­fore the Durs­leys could call him back, he had wheeled about, crossed the front lawn, stepped over the low gar­den wall and was strid­ing off up the street.

He was in trou­ble now and he knew it. He would have to face his aunt and un­cle lat­er and pay the price for his rude­ness, but he did not care very much just at the mo­ment; he had much more press­ing mat­ters on his mind.

Har­ry was sure the crack­ing noise had been made by some­one Ap­pa­rat­ing or Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing. It was ex­act­ly the sound Dob­by the house-​elf made when he van­ished in­to thin air. Was it pos­si­ble that Dob­by was here in Priv­et Drive? Could Dob­by be fol­low­ing him right at this very mo­ment? As this thought oc­curred he wheeled around and stared back down Priv­et Drive, but it ap­peared to be com­plete­ly de­sert­ed and Har­ry was sure that Dob­by did not know how to be­come in­vis­ible.

He walked on, hard­ly aware of the route he was tak­ing, for he had pound­ed these streets so of­ten late­ly that his feet car­ried him to his favourite haunts au­to­mat­ical­ly. Ev­ery few steps he glanced back over his shoul­der. Some­one mag­ical had been near him as he lay among Aunt Petu­nia's dy­ing be­go­nias, he was sure of it. Why hadn't they spo­ken to him, why hadn't they made con­tact, why were they hid­ing now?

And then, as his feel­ing of frus­tra­tion peaked, his cer­tain­ty leaked away.

Per­haps it hadn't been a mag­ical sound af­ter all. Per­haps he was so des­per­ate for the tini­est sign of con­tact from the world to which he be­longed that he was sim­ply over­re­act­ing to per­fect­ly or­di­nary nois­es. Could he be sure it hadn't been the sound of some­thing break­ing in­side a neigh­bour's house?

Har­ry felt a dull, sink­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach and be­fore he knew it the feel­ing of hope­less­ness that had plagued him all sum­mer rolled over him once again.

To­mor­row morn­ing he would be wo­ken by the alarm at five o'clock so he could pay the owl that de­liv­ered the Dai­ly Prophet -but was there any point con­tin­uing to take it? Har­ry mere­ly glanced at the front page be­fore throw­ing it aside these days; when the id­iots who ran the pa­per fi­nal­ly re­alised that Volde­mort was back it would be head­line news, and that was the on­ly kind Har­ry cared about.

If he was lucky, there would al­so be owls car­ry­ing let­ters from his best friends Ron and Hermione, though any ex­pec­ta­tion he'd had that their let­ters would bring him news had long since been dashed.

We can't say much about you-​know-​what, ob­vi­ous­ly… We've been told not to say any­thing im­por­tant in case our let­ters go astray… We're quite busy but I can't give you de­tails here… There's a fair amount go­ing on, we'll tell you ev­ery­thing when we see you…

But when were they go­ing to see him? No­body seemed too both­ered with a pre­cise date. Hermione had scrib­bled I ex­pect we'll be see­ing you quite soon in­side his birth­day card, but how soon was soon? As far as Har­ry could tell from the vague hints in their let­ters, Hermione and Ron were in the same place, pre­sum­ably at Ron's par­ents' house. He could hard­ly bear to think of the pair of them hav­ing fun at The Bur­row when he was stuck in Priv­et Drive. In fact, he was so an­gry with them he had thrown away, un­opened, the two box­es of Hon­ey­dukes choco­lates they'd sent him for his birth­day. He'd re­gret­ted it lat­er, af­ter the wilt­ed sal­ad Aunt Petu­nia had pro­vid­ed for din­ner that night.

And what were Ron and Hermione busy with? Why wasn't he, Har­ry, busy? Hadn't he proved him­self ca­pa­ble of han­dling much more than them? Had they all for­got­ten what he had done? Hadn't it been he who had en­tered that grave­yard and watched Cedric be­ing mur­dered, and been tied to that tomb­stone and near­ly killed?

Don't think about that, Har­ry told him­self stern­ly for the hun­dredth lime that sum­mer. It was bad enough that he kept re­vis­it­ing the grave­yard in his night­mares, with­out dwelling on it in his wak­ing mo­ments too.

He turned a cor­ner in­to Mag­no­lia Cres­cent; halfway along he passed the nar­row al­ley­way down the side of a garage where he had first clapped eyes on his god­fa­ther. Sir­ius, at least, seemed to un­der­stand how Har­ry was feel­ing. Ad­mit­ted­ly, his let­ters were just as emp­ty of prop­er news as Ron and Hermione's, but at least they con­tained words of cau­tion and con­so­la­tion in­stead of tan­ta­lis­ing hints:

I know this must be frus­trat­ing for you… Keep your nose clean and ev­ery­thing will be OK… Be care­ful and don't do any­thing rash…

Well, thought Har­ry, as he crossed Mag­no­lia Cres­cent, turned in­to Mag­no­lia Road and head­ed to­wards the dark­en­ing play park, he had (by and .large) done as Sir­ius ad­vised. He had at least re­sist­ed the temp­ta­tion to tie his trunk to his broom­stick and set off for The Bur­row by him­self. In fact, Har­ry thought his be­haviour had been very good con­sid­er­ing how frus­trat­ed and an­gry he felt at be­ing stuck in Priv­et Drive so long, re­duced to hid­ing in flowerbeds in the hope of hear­ing some­thing that might point to what Lord Volde­mort was do­ing. Nev­er­the­less, it was quite galling to be told not to be rash by a man who had served twelve years in the wiz­ard prison, Azk­aban, es­caped, at­tempt­ed to com­mit the mur­der he had been con­vict­ed for in the first place, then gone on the run with a stolen Hip­pogriff.

Har­ry vault­ed over the locked park gate and set off across the parched grass. The park was as emp­ty as the sur­round­ing streets. When he reached the swings he sank on to the on­ly one that Dud­ley and his friends had not yet man­aged to break, coiled one arm around the chain and stared mood­ily at the ground. He would not be able to hide in the Durs­leys' flowerbed again. To­mor­row, he would have to think of some fresh way of lis­ten­ing to the news. In the mean­time, he had noth­ing to look for­ward to but an­oth­er rest­less, dis­turbed night, be­cause even when he es­caped the night­mares about Cedric he had un­set­tling dreams about long dark cor­ri­dors, all fin­ish­ing in dead ends and locked doors, which he sup­posed had some­thing to do with the trapped feel­ing he had when he was awake. Of­ten the old scar on his fore­head prick­led un­com­fort­ably, but he did not fool him­self that Ron or Hermione or Sir­ius would find that very in­ter­est­ing any more. In the past, his scar hurt­ing had warned that Volde­mort was get­ting stronger again, but now that Volde­mort was back they would prob­ably re­mind him that its reg­ular ir­ri­ta­tion was on­ly to be ex­pect­ed… noth­ing to wor­ry about… old news…

The in­jus­tice of it all welled up in­side him so that he want­ed to yell with fury. If it hadn't been for him, no­body would even have known Volde­mort was back! And his re­ward was to be stuck in Lit­tle Whing­ing for four sol­id weeks, com­plete­ly cut off from the mag­ical world, re­duced to squat­ting among dy­ing be­go­nias so that he could hear about wa­ter-​ski­ing budgeri­gars! How could Dum­ble­dore have for­got­ten him so eas­ily? Why had Ron and Hermione got to­geth­er with­out invit­ing him along, too? How much longer was he sup­posed to en­dure Sir­ius telling him to sit tight and be a good boy; or re­sist the temp­ta­tion to write to the stupid Dai­ly Prophet and point out that Volde­mort had re­turned? These fu­ri­ous thoughts whirled around in Har­ry's head, and his in­sides writhed with anger as a sul­try, vel­vety night fell around him, the air full of the smell of warm, dry grass, and the on­ly sound that of the low grum­ble of traf­fic on the road be­yond the park rail­ings.

He did not know how long he had sat on the swing be­fore the sound of voic­es in­ter­rupt­ed his mus­ings and he looked up. The street­lamps from the sur­round­ing roads were cast­ing a misty glow strong enough to sil­hou­ette a group of peo­ple mak­ing their way across the park. One of them was singing a loud, crude song. The oth­ers were laugh­ing. A soft tick­ing noise came from sev­er­al ex­pen­sive rac­ing bikes that they were wheel­ing along.

Har­ry knew who those peo­ple were. The fig­ure in front was un­mis­take­ably his cousin, Dud­ley Durs­ley, wend­ing his way home, ac­com­pa­nied by his faith­ful gang.

Dud­ley was as vast as ev­er, but a year's hard di­et­ing and the dis­cov­ery of a new tal­ent had wrought quite a change in his physique. As Un­cle Ver­non de­light­ed­ly told any­one who would lis­ten, Dud­ley had re­cent­ly be­come the Ju­nior Heavy­weight In­ter-​School Box­ing Cham­pi­on of the South­east. The no­ble sport', as Un­cle Ver­non called it, had made Dud­ley even more formidable than he had seemed to Har­ry in their pri­ma­ry school days when he had served as Dud­ley's first punch­ball. Har­ry was not re­mote­ly afraid of his cousin any more but he still didn't think that Dud­ley learn­ing to punch hard­er and more ac­cu­rate­ly was cause for cel­ebra­tion. Neigh­bour­hood chil­dren all around were ter­ri­fied of him - even more ter­ri­fied than they were of 'that Pot­ter boy' who, they had been warned, was a hard­ened hooli­gan and at­tend­ed St Bru­tus's Se­cure Cen­tre for In­cur­ably Crim­inal Boys.

Har­ry watched the dark fig­ures cross­ing the grass and won­dered who they had been beat­ing up tonight. Look round, Har­ry found him­self think­ing as he watched them. Come on… look round… I'm sit­ting here all alone… come and have a go…

If Dud­ley's friends saw him sit­ting here, they would be sure to make a bee­line for him, and what would Dud­ley do then? He wouldn't want to lose face in front of the gang, but he'd be ter­ri­fied of pro­vok­ing Har­ry… it would be re­al­ly fun to watch Dud­ley's dilem­ma, to taunt him, watch him, with him pow­er­less to re­spond… and if any of the oth­ers tried hit­ting Har­ry, he was ready - he had his wand. Let them try… he'd love to vent some of his frus­tra­tion on the boys who had once made his life hell.

But they didn't turn around, they didn't see him, they were al­most at the rail­ings. Har­ry mas­tered the im­pulse to call af­ter them… seek­ing a fight was not a smart move… he must not use mag­ic… he would be risk­ing ex­pul­sion again.

The voic­es of Dud­ley's gang died away; they were out of sight, head­ing along Mag­no­lia Road.

There you go, Sir­ius, Har­ry thought dul­ly. Noth­ing rash. Kept my nose clean. Ex­act­ly the op­po­site of what you'd have done.

He got to his feet and stretched. Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non seemed to feel that when­ev­er Dud­ley turned up was the right time to be home, and any time af­ter that was much too late. Un­cle Ver­non had threat­ened to lock Har­ry in the shed if he came home af­ter Dud­ley ev­er again, so, sti­fling a yawn, and still scowl­ing, Har­ry set off to­wards the park gate.

Mag­no­lia Road, like Priv­et Drive, was full of large, square hous­es with per­fect­ly man­icured lawns, all owned by large, square own­ers who drove very clean cars sim­ilar to Un­cle Ver­non's. Har­ry pre­ferred Lit­tle Whing­ing by night, when the cur­tained win­dows made patch­es of jew­el-​bright colour in the dark­ness and he ran no dan­ger of hear­ing dis­ap­prov­ing mut­ters about his 'delin­quent' ap­pear­ance when he passed the house­hold­ers. He walked quick­ly, so that halfway along Mag­no­lia Road Dud­ley's gang came in­to view again; they were say­ing their farewells at the en­trance to Mag­no­lia Cres­cent. Har­ry stepped in­to the shad­ow of a large lilac tree and wait­ed.

'… squealed like a pig, didn't he?' Mal­colm was say­ing, to guf­faws from the oth­ers.

'Nice right hook, Big D,' said Piers.

'Same time to­mor­row?' said Dud­ley.

'Round at my place, my par­ents will be out,' said Gor­don.

'See you then,' said Dud­ley.

'Bye, Dud!'

'See ya, Big D!'

Har­ry wait­ed for the rest of the gang to move on be­fore set­ting off again. When their voic­es had fad­ed once more he head­ed around the cor­ner in­to Mag­no­lia Cres­cent and by walk­ing very quick­ly he soon came with­in hail­ing dis­tance of Dud­ley, who was strolling along at his ease, hum­ming tune­less­ly.

'Hey, Big D!'

Dud­ley turned.

'Oh,' he grunt­ed. 'It's you.'

'How long have you been “Big D” then?' said Har­ry.

'Shut it,' snarled Dud­ley, turn­ing away.

'Cool name,' said Har­ry, grin­ning and falling in­to step be­side his cousin. 'But you'll al­ways be “Ick­le Did­dykins” to me.'

'I said, SHUT IT!' said Dud­ley, whose ham-​like hands had curled in­to fists.

'Don't the boys know that's what your mum calls you?'

'Shut your face.'

'You don't tell her to shut her face. What about “Pop­kin” and “Dinky Did­dy­dums”, can I use them then?'

Dud­ley said noth­ing. The ef­fort of keep­ing him­self from hit­ting Har­ry seemed to de­mand all his self-​con­trol.

'So who've you been beat­ing up tonight?' Har­ry asked, his grin fad­ing. 'An­oth­er ten-​year-​old? I know you did Mark Evans two nights ago -

'He was ask­ing for it,' snarled Dud­ley.

'Oh yeah?'

'He cheeked me.'

'Yeah? Did he say you look like a pig that's been taught to walk on its hind legs? 'Cause that's not cheek, Dud, that's true.'

A mus­cle was twitch­ing in Dud­ley's jaw. It gave Har­ry enor­mous sat­is­fac­tion to know how fu­ri­ous he was mak­ing Dud­ley; he felt as though he was si­phon­ing off his own frus­tra­tion in­to his cousin, the on­ly out­let he had.

They turned right down the nar­row al­ley­way where Har­ry had first seen Sir­ius and which formed a short cut be­tween Mag­no­lia Cres­cent and Wis­te­ria Walk. It was emp­ty and much dark­er than the streets it linked be­cause there were no street­lamps. Their foot­steps were muf­fled be­tween garage walls on one side and a high fence on the oth­er.

Think you're a big man car­ry­ing that thing, don't you?' Dud­ley said af­ter a few sec­onds.

'What thing?'

'That - that thing you are hid­ing.'

Har­ry grinned again.

'Not as stupid as you look, are you, Dud? But I's'pose, if you were, you wouldn't be able to walk and talk at the same time.'

Har­ry pulled out his wand. He saw Dud­ley look side­ways at it.

'You're not al­lowed,' Dud­ley said at once. 'I know you're not. You'd get ex­pelled from that freak school you go to.'

'How d'you know they haven't changed the rules, Big D?'

They haven't,' said Dud­ley, though he didn't sound com­plete­ly con­vinced.

Har­ry laughed soft­ly.

'You haven't got the guts to take me on with­out that thing, have you?' Dud­ley snarled.

'Where­as you just need four mates be­hind you be­fore you can beat up a ten year old. You know that box­ing ti­tle you keep bang­ing on about? How old was your op­po­nent? Sev­en? Eight?'

'He was six­teen, for your in­for­ma­tion,' snarled Dud­ley, 'and he was out cold for twen­ty min­utes af­ter I'd fin­ished with him and he was twice as heavy as you. You just wait till I tell Dad you had that thing out -

'Run­ning to Dad­dy now, are you? Is his ick­le box­ing champ fright­ened of nasty Har­ry's wand?'

'Not this brave at night, are you?' sneered Dud­ley.

This is night, Did­dykins. That's what we call it when it goes all dark like this.'

'I mean when you're in bed!' Dud­ley snarled.

He had stopped walk­ing. Har­ry stopped too, star­ing at his cousin.

From the lit­tle he could see of Dud­ley's large face, he was wear­ing a strange­ly tri­umphant look.

'What d'you mean, I'm not brave when I'm in bed?' said Har­ry, com­plete­ly non­plussed. 'What am I sup­posed to be fright­ened of, pil­lows or some­thing?'

'I heard you last night,' said Dud­ley breath­less­ly. Talk­ing in your sleep. Moan­ing.'

'What d'you mean?' Har­ry said again, but there was a cold, plung­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach. He had re­vis­it­ed the grave­yard last night in his dreams.

Dud­ley gave a harsh bark of laugh­ter, then adopt­ed a high-​pitched whim­per­ing voice.

'“Don't kill Cedric! Don't kill Cedric!” Who's Cedric - your boyfriend?'

'I - you're ly­ing,' said Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly. But his mouth had gone dry. He knew Dud­ley wasn't ly­ing - how else would he know about Cedric?

'“Dad! Help me, Dad! He's go­ing to kill me, Dad! Boo hoo!”'

'Shut up,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly. 'Shut up, Dud­ley, I'm warn­ing you!'

''Come and help me, Dad! Mum, come and help me! He's killed Cedric! Dad, help me! He's go­ing to -" Don't you point that thing at me!'

Dud­ley backed in­to the al­ley wall. Har­ry was point­ing the wand di­rect­ly at Dud­ley's heart. Har­ry could feel four­teen years' ha­tred of Dud­ley pound­ing in his veins - what wouldn't he give to strike now, to jinx Dud­ley so thor­ough­ly he'd have to crawl home like an in­sect, struck dumb, sprout­ing feel­ers…

'Don't ev­er talk about that again,' Har­ry snarled. 'D'you un­der­stand me?'

'Point that thing some­where else!'

'I said, do you un­der­stand me?'

'Point it some­where else!'

'DO YOU UN­DER­STAND ME?'

'GET THAT THING AWAY FROM -'

Dud­ley gave an odd, shud­der­ing gasp, as though he had been doused in icy wa­ter.

Some­thing had hap­pened to the night. The star-​strewn in­di­go sky was sud­den­ly pitch black and light­less - the stars, the moon, the misty street­lamps at ei­ther end of the al­ley had van­ished. The dis­tant rum­ble of cars and the whis­per of trees had gone. The balmy evening was sud­den­ly pierc­ing­ly, bit­ing­ly cold. They were sur­round­ed by to­tal, im­pen­etra­ble, silent dark­ness, as though some gi­ant hand had dropped a thick, icy man­tle over the en­tire al­ley­way, blind­ing them.

For a split sec­ond Har­ry thought he had done mag­ic with­out mean­ing to, de­spite the fact that he'd been re­sist­ing as hard as he could - then his rea­son caught up with his sens­es - he didn't have the pow­er to turn off the stars. He turned his head this way and that, try­ing to see some­thing, but the dark­ness pressed on his eyes like a weight­less veil.

Dud­ley's ter­ri­fied voice broke in Har­ry's ear.

'W-​what are you d-​do­ing? St-​stop it!'

'I'm not do­ing any­thing! Shut up and don't move!'

'I c-​can't see! I've g-​gone blind! I -'

'I said shut up!'

Har­ry stood stock still, turn­ing his sight­less eyes left and right. The cold was so in­tense he was shiv­er­ing all over; goose bumps had erupt­ed up his arms and the hairs on the back of his neck were stand­ing up - he opened his eyes to their fullest ex­tent, star­ing blankly around, un­see­ing.

It was im­pos­si­ble… they couldn't be here… not in Lit­tle Whing­ing… he strained his ears… he would hear them be­fore he saw them…

'I'll't-​tell Dad!' Dud­ley whim­pered. 'W-​where are you? What are you d-​do—?'

'Will you shut up?' Har­ry hissed, I'm try­ing to lis—'

But he fell silent. He had heard just the thing he had been dread­ing.

There was some­thing in the al­ley­way apart from them­selves, some­thing that was draw­ing long, hoarse, rat­tling breaths. Har­ry felt a hor­ri­ble jolt of dread as he stood trem­bling in the freez­ing air.

'C-​cut it out! Stop do­ing it! I'll h-​hit you, I swear I will!'

'Dud­ley, shut—'

WHAM.

A fist made con­tact with the side of Har­rys head, lift­ing him off his feet. Small white lights popped in front of his eyes. For the sec­ond time in an hour Har­ry felt as though his head had been cleaved in two; next mo­ment, he had land­ed hard on the ground and his wand had flown out of his hand.

'You mo­ron, Dud­ley!' Har­ry yelled, his eyes wa­ter­ing with pain as he scram­bled to his hands and knees, feel­ing around fran­ti­cal­ly in the black­ness. He heard Dud­ley blun­der­ing away, hit­ting the al­ley fence, stum­bling.

'DUD­LEY, COME BACK! YOU'RE RUN­NING RIGHT AT IT!'

There was a hor­ri­ble squeal­ing yell and Dud­ley's foot­steps stopped. At the same mo­ment, Har­ry felt a creep­ing chill be­hind him that could mean on­ly one thing. There was more than one.

'DUD­LEY, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! WHAT­EV­ER YOU DO, KEEP YOUR MOUTH SHUT! Wand!' Har­ry mut­tered fran­ti­cal­ly, his hands fly­ing over the ground like spi­ders. 'Where's - wand -come on - lu­mos!'

He said the spell au­to­mat­ical­ly, des­per­ate for light to help him in his search - and to his dis­be­liev­ing re­lief, light flared inch­es from his right hand - the wand tip had ig­nit­ed. Har­ry snatched it up, scram­bled to his feet and turned around.

His stom­ach turned over.

A tow­er­ing, hood­ed fig­ure was glid­ing smooth­ly to­wards him, hov­er­ing over the ground, no feet or face vis­ible be­neath its robes, suck­ing on the night as it came.

Stum­bling back­wards, Har­ry raised his wand.

'Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!'

A sil­very wisp of vapour shot from the tip of the wand and the De­men­tor slowed, but the spell hadn't worked prop­er­ly; trip­ping over his own feet, Har­ry re­treat­ed fur­ther as the De­men­tor bore down up­on him, pan­ic fog­ging his brain - con­cen­trate -

A pair of grey, slimy, scabbed hands slid from in­side the De­men­tor's robes, reach­ing for him. A rush­ing noise filled Har­ry's ears.

'Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!'

His voice sound­ed dim and dis­tant. An­oth­er wisp of sil­ver smoke, fee­bler than the last, drift­ed from the wand - he couldn't do it any more, he couldn't work the spell.

There was laugh­ter in­side his own head, shrill, high-​pitched laugh­ter… he could smell the De­men­tor's pu­trid, death-​cold breath fill­ing his own lungs, drown­ing him - think… some­thing hap­py…

But there was no hap­pi­ness in him… the De­men­tor's icy fin­gers were clos­ing on his throat - the high-​pitched laugh­ter was grow­ing loud­er and loud­er, and a voice spoke in­side his head: 'Bow to death, Har­ry…it might even be pain­less… I would not know … I have nev­er died …"

He was nev­er go­ing to see Ron and Hermione again -

And their faces burst clear­ly in­to his mind as he fought for breath.

'EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!'

An enor­mous sil­ver stag erupt­ed from the tip of Har­ry's wand; its antlers caught the De­men­tor in the place where the heart should have been; it was thrown back­wards, weight­less as dark­ness, and as the stag charged, the De­men­tor swooped away, bat-​like and de­feat­ed.

'THIS WAY!' Har­ry shout­ed at the stag. Wheel­ing around, he sprint­ed down the al­ley­way, hold­ing the lit wand aloft. 'DUD­LEY? DUD­LEY!'

He had run bare­ly a dozen steps when he reached them: Dud­ley was curled up on the ground, his arms clamped over his face. A sec­ond De­men­tor was crouch­ing low over him, grip­ping his wrists in its slimy hands, pris­ing them slow­ly al­most lov­ing­ly apart, low­er­ing its hood­ed head to­wards Dud­ley's face as though about to kiss him.

'GET IT!' Har­ry bel­lowed, and with a rush­ing, roar­ing sound, the sil­ver stag he had con­jured came gal­lop­ing past him. The De­men­tor's eye­less face was bare­ly an inch from Dud­ley's when the sil­ver antlers caught it; the thing was thrown up in­to the air and, like its fel­low, it soared away and was ab­sorbed in­to the dark­ness; the stag can­tered to the end of the al­ley­way and dis­solved in­to sil­ver mist.

Moon, stars and street­lamps burst back in­to life. A warm breeze swept the al­ley­way. Trees rus­tled in neigh­bour­ing gar­dens and the mun­dane rum­ble of cars in Mag­no­lia Cres­cent filled the air again.

Har­ry stood quite still, all his sens­es vi­brat­ing, tak­ing in the abrupt re­turn to nor­mal­ity. Af­ter a mo­ment, he be­came aware that his T-​shirt was stick­ing to him; he was drenched in sweat.

He could not be­lieve what had just hap­pened. De­men­tors here, in Lit­tle Whing­ing.

Dud­ley lay curled up on the ground, whim­per­ing and shak­ing. Har­ry bent down to see whether he was in a fit state to stand up, but then he heard loud, run­ning foot­steps be­hind him. In­stinc­tive­ly rais­ing his wand again, he span on his heel to face the new­com­er.

Mrs. Figg, their bat­ty old neigh­bour, came pant­ing in­to sight. Her griz­zled grey hair was es­cap­ing from its hair­net, a clank­ing string shop­ping bag was swing­ing from her wrist and her feet were halfway out of her tar­tan car­pet slip­pers. Har­ry made to stow his wand hur­ried­ly out of sight, but -

'Don't put it away id­iot boy!' she shrieked. 'What if there are more of them around? Oh, I'm go­ing to kill Mundun­gus Fletch­er!'

Chap­ter 2 - A Peck of Owls

'What?' said Har­ry blankly.

'He left!' said Mrs. Figg, wring­ing her hands. 'Left to see some­one about a batch of caul­drons that fell off the back of a broom! I told him I'd flay him alive if he went, and now look! De­men­tors! It's just lucky I put Mr Tib­bies on the case! But we haven't got time to stand around! Hur­ry, now, we've got to get you back! Oh, the trou­ble this is go­ing to cause! I will kill him!'

'But -' The rev­ela­tion that his bat­ty old cat-​ob­sessed neigh­bour knew what De­men­tors were was al­most as big a shock to Har­ry as meet­ing two of them down the al­ley­way. 'You're - you're a witch?'

'I'm a Squib, as Mundun­gus knows full well, so how on earth was I sup­posed to help you fight off De­men­tors? He left you com­plete­ly with­out cov­er when I'd warned him -'

This Mundun­gus has been fol­low­ing me? Hang on - it was him! He Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed from the front of my house!'

'Yes, yes, yes, but luck­ily I'd sta­tioned Mr Tib­bies un­der a car just in case, and Mr Tib­bies came and warned me, but by the time I got to your house you'd gone - and now - oh, what's Dum­ble­dore go­ing to say? You!' she shrieked at Dud­ley, still supine on the al­ley floor. 'Get your fat bot­tom off the ground, quick!'

'You know Dum­ble­dore?' said Har­ry, star­ing at her.

'Of course I know Dum­ble­dore, who doesn't know Dum­ble­dore? But come on - I'll be no help if they come back, I've nev­er so much as Trans­fig­ured a teabag.'

She stooped down, seized one of Dud­ley's mas­sive arms in her wiz­ened hands and tugged.

'Get up, you use­less lump, get up!'

But Dud­ley ei­ther could not or would not move. He re­mained on the ground, trem­bling and ashen-​faced, his mouth shut very tight.

'I'll do it.' Har­ry took hold of Dud­ley's arm and heaved. With an enor­mous ef­fort he man­aged to hoist him to his feet. Dud­ley seemed to be on the point of faint­ing. His small eyes were rolling in their sock­ets and sweat was bead­ing his face; the mo­ment Har­ry let go of him he swayed dan­ger­ous­ly.

'Hur­ry up!' said Mrs. Figg hys­ter­ical­ly.

Har­ry pulled one of Dud­ley's mas­sive arms around his own shoul­ders and dragged him to­wards the road, sag­ging slight­ly un­der the weight. Mrs. Figg tot­tered along in front of them, peer­ing anx­ious­ly around the cor­ner.

'Keep your wand out,' she told Har­ry, as they en­tered Wis­te­ria Walk. 'Nev­er mind the Statute of Se­cre­cy now, there's go­ing to be hell to pay any­way, we might as well be hanged for a drag­on as an egg. Talk about the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery… this was ex­act­ly what Dum­ble­dore was afraid of - What's that at the end of the street? Oh, it's just Mr Pren­tice… don't put your wand away, boy, don't I keep telling you I'm no use?'

It was not easy to hold a wand steady and haul Dud­ley along at the same time. Har­ry gave his cousin an im­pa­tient dig in the ribs, but Dud­ley seemed to have lost all de­sire for in­de­pen­dent move­ment. He was slumped on Har­ry's shoul­der, his large feet drag­ging along the ground.

'Why didn't you tell me you're a Squib, Mrs. Figg?' asked Har­ry, pant­ing with the ef­fort to keep walk­ing. 'All those times I came round your house - why didn't you say any­thing?'

'Dum­ble­dore's or­ders. I was to keep an eye on you but not say any­thing, you were too young. I'm sor­ry I gave you such a mis­er­able time, Har­ry, but the Durs­leys would nev­er have let you come if they'd thought you en­joyed it. It wasn't easy, you know… but oh my word,' she said trag­ical­ly, wring­ing her hands once more, 'when Dum­ble­dore hears about this - how could Mundun­gus have left, he was sup­posed to be on du­ty un­til mid­night - where is he? How am I go­ing to tell Dum­ble­dore what's hap­pened? I can't Ap­pa­rate.'

'I've got an owl, you can bor­row her.' Har­ry groaned, won­der­ing whether his spine was go­ing to snap un­der Dud­leys weight.

'Har­ry, you don't un­der­stand! Dum­ble­dore will need to act as quick­ly as pos­si­ble, the Min­istry have their own ways of de­tect­ing un­der­age mag­ic, they'll know al­ready, you mark my words.'

'But I was get­ting rid of De­men­tors, I had to use mag­ic - they're go­ing to be more wor­ried about what De­men­tors were do­ing float­ing around Wis­te­ria Walk, sure­ly?'

'Oh, my dear, I wish it were so, but I'm afraid - MUNDUN­GUS FLETCH­ER, I AM GO­ING TO KILL YOU!'

There was a loud crack and a strong smell of drink min­gled with stale to­bac­co filled the air as a squat, un­shaven man in a tat­tered over­coat ma­te­ri­alised right in front of them. He had short, bandy legs, long strag­gly gin­ger hair and blood­shot, bag­gy eyes that gave him the dole­ful look of a bas­set hound. He was al­so clutch­ing a sil­very bun­dle that Har­ry recog­nised at once as an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

'S'up, Fig­gy?' he said, star­ing from Mrs. Figg to Har­ry and Dud­ley. 'What 'ap­pened to stay­ing un­der­cov­er?'

Til give you un­der­cov­er]' cried Mrs. Figg. 'De­men­tors, you use­less, skiv­ing sneak thief!'

'De­men­tors?' re­peat­ed Mundun­gus, aghast. 'De­men­tors, 'ere?'

'Yes, here, you worth­less pile of bat drop­pings, here!' shrieked Mrs. Figg. 'De­men­tors at­tack­ing the boy on your watch!'

'Blimey,' said Mundun­gus weak­ly, look­ing from Mrs. Figg to Har­ry, and back again. 'Blimey, I -'

'And you off buy­ing stolen caul­drons! Didn't I tell you not to go? Didn't IT

'I - well, I -' Mundun­gus looked deeply un­com­fort­able. 'It — it was a very good busi­ness op­por­tu­ni­ty, see -'

Mrs. Figg raised the arm from which her string bag dan­gled and whacked Mundun­gus around the face and neck with it; judg­ing by the clank­ing noise it made it was full of cat food.

'Ouch - ger­roff - ger­roff, you mad old bat! Some­one's got­ta tell Dum­ble­dore!'

'Yes - they - have!' yelled Mrs. Figg, swing­ing the bag of cat food at ev­ery bit of Mundun­gus she could reach. 'And - it - had

- bet­ter - be - you - and - you - can - tell - him - why - you -weren't - there - to - help!'

'Keep your 'air­net on!' said Mundun­gus, his arms over his head, cow­er­ing. 'I'm go­ing, I'm go­ing!'

And with an­oth­er loud crack, he van­ished.

'I hope Dum­ble­dore mur­ders him!' said Mrs. Figg fu­ri­ous­ly. 'Now come on, Har­ry, what are you wait­ing for?'

Har­ry de­cid­ed not to waste his re­main­ing breath on point­ing out that he could bare­ly walk un­der Dud­ley's bulk. He gave the se­mi-​con­scious Dud­ley a heave and stag­gered on­wards.

'I'll take you to the door,' said Mrs. Figg, as they turned in­to Priv­et Drive. 'Just in case there are more of them around… oh my word, what a catas­tro­phe… and you had to fight them off your­self… and Dum­ble­dore said we were to keep you from do­ing mag­ic at all costs… well, it's no good cry­ing over spilt po­tion, I sup­pose… but the cat's among the pix­ies now.'

'So,' Har­ry pant­ed, 'Dum­ble­dore's… been hav­ing… me fol­lowed?'

'Of course he has,' said Mrs. Figg im­pa­tient­ly. 'Did you ex­pect him to let you wan­der around on your own af­ter what hap­pened in June? Good Lord, boy, they told me you were in­tel­li­gent… right… get in­side and stay there,' she said, as they reached num­ber four. 'I ex­pect some­one will be in touch with you soon enough.'

'What are you go­ing to do?' asked Har­ry quick­ly.

'I'm go­ing straight home,' said Mrs. Figg, star­ing around the dark street and shud­der­ing. 'I'll need to wait for more in­struc­tions. Just stay in the house. Good­night.'

'Hang on, don't go yet! I want to know -

But Mrs. Figg had al­ready set off at a trot, car­pet slip­pers flop­ping, string bag clank­ing.

'Wait!' Har­ry shout­ed af­ter her. He had a mil­lion ques­tions to ask any­one who was in con­tact with Dum­ble­dore; but with­in sec­onds Mrs. Figg was swal­lowed by the dark­ness. Scowl­ing, Har­ry read­just­ed Dud­ley on his shoul­der and made his slow, painful way up num­ber four's gar­den path.

The hall light was on. Har­ry stuck his wand back in­side the waist­band of his jeans, rang the bell and watched Aunt Petu­nia's out­line grow larg­er and larg­er, odd­ly dis­tort­ed by the rip­pling glass in the front door.

'Did­dy! About time too, I was get­ting quite - quite - Did­dy, what's the mat­ter!'

Har­ry looked side­ways at Dud­ley and ducked out from un­der his arm just in time. Dud­ley swayed on the spot for a mo­ment, his face pale green… then he opened his mouth and vom­it­ed all over the door­mat.

'DID­DY! Did­dy, what's the mat­ter with you? Ver­non? VER­NON!'

Har­ry's un­cle came galumph­ing out of the liv­ing room, wal­rus mous­tache blow­ing hith­er and thith­er as it al­ways did when he was ag­itat­ed. He hur­ried for­wards to help Aunt Petu­nia ne­go­ti­ate a weak-​kneed Dud­ley over the thresh­old while avoid­ing step­ping in the pool of sick.

'He's ill, Ver­non!'

'What is it, son? What's hap­pened? Did Mrs. Polkiss give you some­thing for­eign for tea?'

'Why are you all cov­ered in dirt, dar­ling? Have you been ly­ing on the ground?'

'Hang on - you haven't been mugged, have you, son?'

Aunt Petu­nia screamed.

'Phone the po­lice, Ver­non! Phone the po­lice! Did­dy, dar­ling, speak to Mum­my! What did they do to you?'

In all the ker­fuf­fle no­body seemed to have no­ticed Har­ry, which suit­ed him per­fect­ly. He man­aged to slip in­side just be­fore Un­cle Ver­non slammed the door and, while the Durs­leys made their noisy progress down the hall to­wards the kitchen, Har­ry moved care­ful­ly and qui­et­ly to­wards the stairs.

'Who did it, son? Give us names. We'll get them, don't wor­ry.'

'Shh! He's try­ing to say some­thing, Ver­non! What is it, Did­dy? Tell Mum­my!'

Har­ry's foot was on the bot­tom-​most stair when Dud­ley found his voice.

'Him.'

Har­ry froze, foot on the stair, face screwed up, braced for the ex­plo­sion.

'BOY! COME HERE!'

With a feel­ing of min­gled dread and anger, Har­ry re­moved his foot slow­ly from the stair and turned to fol­low the Durs­leys.

The scrupu­lous­ly clean kitchen had an odd­ly un­re­al glit­ter af­ter the dark­ness out­side. Aunt Petu­nia was ush­er­ing Dud­ley in­to a chair; he was still very green and clam­my-​look­ing. Un­cle Ver­non stand­ing in front of the drain­ing board, glar­ing at Har­ry through tiny, nar­rowed eyes.

'What have you done to my son?' he said in a men­ac­ing growl.

'Noth­ing,' said Har­ry, know­ing per­fect­ly well that Un­cle Ver­non wouldn't be­lieve him.

'What did he do to you, Did­dy?' Aunt Petu­nia said in a qua­ver­ing voice, now spong­ing sick from the front of Dud­ley's leather jack­et. 'Was it - was it you-​know-​what, dar­ling? Did he use - his thing?'

Slow­ly, tremu­lous­ly, Dud­ley nod­ded.

'I didn't!' Har­ry said sharply, as Aunt Petu­nia let out a wail and

Un­cle Ver­non raised his fists. 'I didn't do any­thing to him, it wasn't me, it was -

But at that pre­cise mo­ment a screech owl swooped in through the kitchen win­dow. Nar­row­ly miss­ing the top of Un­cle Ver­non's head, it soared across the kitchen, dropped the large parch­ment en­ve­lope it was car­ry­ing in its beak at Har­ry's feet, turned grace­ful­ly, the tips of its wings just brush­ing the top of the fridge, then zoomed out­side again and off across the gar­den.

'OWLS!' bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non, the well-​worn vein in his tem­ple puls­ing an­gri­ly as he slammed the kitchen win­dow shut. 'OWLS AGAIN! I WILL NOT HAVE ANY MORE OWLS IN MY HOUSE!'

But Har­ry was al­ready rip­ping open the en­ve­lope and pulling out the let­ter in­side, his heart pound­ing some­where in the re­gion of his Adam's ap­ple.

Dear Mr Pot­ter,

We have re­ceived in­tel­li­gence that you per­formed the Pa­tronus Charm at twen­ty-​three min­utes past nine this evening in a Mug­gle-​in­hab­it­ed area and in the pres­ence of a Mug­gle.

The sev­en­ty of this breach of the De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery has re­sult­ed in your ex­pul­sion

from Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry. Min­istry rep­re­sen­ta­tives will be call­ing at your place of res­idence short­ly to de­stroy your wand.

As you have al­ready re­ceived an of­fi­cial warn­ing for a pre­vi­ous of­fence un­der Sec­tion 13 of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of War­locks' Statute of Se­cre­cy, we re­gret to in­form you that your pres­ence is re­quired at a dis­ci­plinary hear­ing at the Min­istry of Mag­ic at 9 a.m. on the twelfth of Au­gust.

Hop­ing you are well,

Yours sin­cere­ly,

Mafal­da Hop­kirk

Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice

Min­istry of Mag­ic

Har­ry read the let­ter through twice. He was on­ly vague­ly aware of Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia talk­ing. In­side his head, all was icy and numb. One fact had pen­etrat­ed his con­scious­ness like a paralysing dart. He was ex­pelled from Hog­warts. It was all over. He was nev­er go­ing back.

He looked up at the Durs­leys. Un­cle Ver­non was pur­ple-​faced, shout­ing, his fists still raised; Aunt Petu­nia had her arms around Dud­ley, who was retch­ing again.

Har­ry's tem­porar­ily stu­pe­fied brain seemed to reawak­en. Min­istry rep­re­sen­ta­tives will be call­ing at your place of res­idence short­ly to de­stroy your wand. There was on­ly one thing for it. He would have to run - now. Where he was go­ing to go, Har­ry didn't know, but he was cer­tain of one thing: at Hog­warts or out­side it, he need­ed his wand. In an al­most dream­like state, he pulled his wand out and turned to leave the kitchen.

'Where d'you think you're go­ing?' yelled Un­cle Ver­non. When Har­ry didn't re­ply, he pound­ed across the kitchen to block the door­way in­to the hall. 'I haven't fin­ished with you, boy!'

'Get out of the way,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

'You're go­ing to stay here and ex­plain how my son —'

'If you don't get out of the way I'm go­ing to jinx you,' said Har­ry, rais­ing the wand.

'You can't pull that one on me!' snarled Un­cle Ver­non. 'I know you're not al­lowed to use it out­side that mad­house you call a school!'

The mad­house has chucked me out,' said Har­ry. 'So I can do what­ev­er I like. You've got three sec­onds. One - two -'

A re­sound­ing CRACK filled the kitchen. Aunt Petu­nia screamed,

I hide Ver­non yelled and ducked, but for the third time that night Har­ry was search­ing for the source of a dis­tur­bance he had not made. He spot­ted it at once: a dazed and ruf­fled-​look­ing barn owl was sit­ting out­side on the kitchen sill, hav­ing just col­lid­ed with the closed win­dow.

Ig­nor­ing Un­cle Ver­non's an­guished yell of 'OWLS!' Har­ry crossed the room at a run and wrenched the win­dow open. The owl stuck out its leg, to which a small roll of parch­ment was tied, shook its leathers, and took off the mo­ment Har­ry had tak­en the let­ter. Hands shak­ing, Har­ry un­furled the sec­ond mes­sage, which was writ­ten very hasti­ly and blotchi­ly in black ink.

Har­ry - Dum­ble­dore's just ar­rived at the Min­istry and he's try­ing to sort it all out. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UN­CLE'S HOUSE. DO NOT DO ANY MORE MAG­IC. DO NOT SUR­REN­DER YOUR WAND. Arthur Weasley

Dum­ble­dore was try­ing to sort it all out… what did that mean? How much pow­er did Dum­ble­dore have to over­ride the Min­istry of Mag­ic? Was there a chance that he might be al­lowed back to Hog­warts, then? A small shoot of hope bur­geoned in Har­ry's chest, al­most im­me­di­ate­ly stran­gled by pan­ic - how was he sup­posed to refuse to sur­ren­der his wand with­out do­ing mag­ic? He'd have to du­el with the Min­istry rep­re­sen­ta­tives, and if he did that, he'd be lucky to es­cape Azk­aban, let alone ex­pul­sion.

His mind was rac­ing… he could run for it and risk be­ing cap-​lured by the Min­istry, or stay put and wait for them to find him here. He was much more tempt­ed by the for­mer course, but he knew Mr Weasley had his best in­ter­ests at heart… and af­ter all, Dum­ble­dore had sort­ed out much worse than this be­fore.

'Right,' Har­ry said, 'I've changed my mind, I'm stay­ing.' He flung him­self down at the kitchen ta­ble and faced Dud­ley and Aunt Petu­nia. The Durs­leys ap­peared tak­en aback at his abrupt change of mind. Aunt Petu­nia glanced de­spair­ing­ly at Un­cle Ver­non. The vein in his pur­ple tem­ple was throb­bing worse than ev­er.

'Who are all these rud­dy owls from?' he growled.

The first one was from the Min­istry of Mag­ic, ex­pelling me,' said Har­ry calm­ly. He was strain­ing his ears to catch any nois­es out­side, in case the Min­istry rep­re­sen­ta­tives were ap­proach­ing, and it was eas­ier and qui­eter to an­swer Un­cle Ver­non's ques­tions than to have him start rag­ing and bel­low­ing. 'The sec­ond one was from my friend Ron's dad, who works at the Min­istry.'

'Min­istry of Mag­ic?' bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non. 'Peo­ple like you in gov­ern­ment! Oh, this ex­plains ev­ery­thing, ev­ery­thing, no won­der the coun­try's go­ing to the dogs.'

When Har­ry did not re­spond, Un­cle Ver­non glared at him, then spat out, 'And why have you been ex­pelled?'

'Be­cause I did mag­ic.'

'AHA!' roared Un­cle Ver­non, slam­ming his fist down on top of the fridge, which sprang open; sev­er­al of Dud­ley's low-​fat snacks top­pled out and burst on the floor. 'So you ad­mit it! What did you do to Dud­ley?'

'Noth­ing,' said Har­ry, slight­ly less calm­ly. 'That wasn't me -'

'Was,' mut­tered Dud­ley un­ex­pect­ed­ly, and Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia in­stant­ly made flap­ping ges­tures at Har­ry to qui­eten him while they both bent low over Dud­ley.

'Go on, son,' said Un­cle Ver­non, 'what did he do?'

Tell us, dar­ling,' whis­pered Aunt Petu­nia.

'Point­ed his wand at me,' Dud­ley mum­bled.

'Yeah, I did, but I didn't use -' Har­ry be­gan an­gri­ly, but -

'SHUT UP!' roared Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia in uni­son.

'Go on, son,' re­peat­ed Un­cle Ver­non, mous­tache blow­ing about fu­ri­ous­ly.

'All went dark,' Dud­ley said hoarse­ly, shud­der­ing. 'Ev­ery­thing dark. And then I h-​heard… things. In­side m-​my head.'

Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia ex­changed looks of ut­ter hor­ror. If their least favourite thing in the world was mag­ic - close­ly fol­lowed by neigh­bours who cheat­ed more than they did on the hosepipe ban - peo­ple who heard voic­es were def­inite­ly in the bot­tom ten. They ob­vi­ous­ly thought Dud­ley was los­ing his mind.

'What sort of things did you hear, Pop­kin?' breathed Aunt Petu­nia, very white-​faced and with tears in her eyes.

But Dud­ley seemed in­ca­pable of say­ing. He shud­dered again and shook his large blond head, and de­spite the sense of numb dread that had set­tled on Har­ry since the ar­rival of the first owl, he felt a cer­tain cu­rios­ity. De­men­tors caused a per­son to re­live the worst mo­ments of their life. What would spoiled, pam­pered, bul­ly­ing Dud­ley have been forced to hear?

'How come you fell over, son?' said Un­cle Ver­non, in an un­nat­ural­ly qui­et voice, the kind of voice he might adopt at the bed­side of a very ill per­son.

'T-​tripped,' said Dud­ley shak­ily. 'And then -

He ges­tured at his mas­sive chest. Har­ry un­der­stood. Dud­ley was re­mem­ber­ing the clam­my cold that filled the lungs as hope and hap­pi­ness were sucked out of you.

'Hor­ri­ble,' croaked Dud­ley. 'Cold. Re­al­ly cold.'

'OK,' said Un­cle Ver­non, in a voice of forced calm, while Aunt Petu­nia laid an anx­ious hand on Dud­ley's fore­head to feel his tem­per­ature. 'What hap­pened then, Dud­ders?'

'Felt… felt… felt… as if… as if…'

'As if you'd nev­er be hap­py again,' Har­ry sup­plied dul­ly.

'Yes,' Dud­ley whis­pered, still trem­bling.

'So!' said Un­cle Ver­non, voice re­stored to full and con­sid­er­able vol­ume as he straight­ened up. 'You put some crack­pot spell on my son so he'd hear voic­es and be­lieve he was - was doomed to mis­ery, or some­thing, did you?'

'How many times do I have to tell you?' said Har­ry, tem­per and voice both ris­ing. 'It wasn't me! It was a cou­ple of De­men­tors!'

'A cou­ple of - what's this codswal­lop?'

'De - men - tors,' said Har­ry slow­ly and clear­ly. 'Two of them.'

'And what the rud­dy hell are De­men­tors?'

'They guard the wiz­ard prison, Azk­aban,' said Aunt Petu­nia.

Two sec­onds of ring­ing si­lence fol­lowed these words be­fore Aunt Petu­nia clapped her hand over her mouth as though she had let slip a dis­gust­ing swear word. Un­cle Ver­non was gog­gling at her. Har­rys brain reeled. Mrs. Figg was one thing - but Aunt Petu­nia'?

'How d'you know that?' he asked her, as­ton­ished.

Aunt Petu­nia looked quite ap­palled with her­self. She glanced at Un­cle Ver­non in fear­ful apol­ogy, then low­ered her hand slight­ly to re­veal her horsy teeth.

'I heard - that aw­ful boy - telling her about them - years ago,' she said jerk­ily.

'If you mean my mum and dad, why don't you use their names?' said Har­ry loud­ly, but Aunt Petu­nia ig­nored him. She seemed hor­ri­bly flus­tered.

Har­ry was stunned. Ex­cept for one out­burst years ago, in the course of which Aunt Petu­nia had screamed that Har­ry's moth­er had been a freak, he had. nev­er heard her men­tion her sis­ter. He was as­tound­ed that she had re­mem­bered this scrap of in­for­ma­tion about the mag­ical world for so long, when she usu­al­ly put all her en­er­gies in­to pre­tend­ing it didn't ex­ist.

Un­cle Ver­non opened his mouth, closed it again, opened it once more, shut it, then, ap­par­ent­ly strug­gling to re­mem­ber how to talk, opened it for a third time and croaked, 'So - so - they - er - they - er - they ac­tu­al­ly ex­ist, do they - er - De­men­ty-​what­sits?'

Aunt Petu­nia nod­ded.

Un­cle Ver­non looked from Aunt Petu­nia to Dud­ley to Har­ry as if hop­ing some­body was go­ing to shout 'April Fool!' When no­body did, he opened his mouth yet again, but was spared the strug­gle to find more words by the ar­rival of the third owl of the evening. It zoomed through the still-​open win­dow like a feath­ery can­non-​ball and land­ed with a clat­ter on the kitchen ta­ble, caus­ing all three of the Durs­leys to jump with fright. Har­ry tore a sec­ond of­fi­cial-​look­ing en­ve­lope from the owls beak and ripped it open as the owl swooped back out in­to the night.

'Enough - eff­ing - owls,' mut­tered Un­cle Ver­non dis­tract­ed­ly, stomp­ing over to the win­dow and slam­ming it shut again.

Dear Mr Pot­ter,

Fur­ther to our let­ter of ap­prox­imate­ly twen­ty-​two min­utes ago, the

Min­istry of Mag­ic has re­vised its de­ci­sion to de­stroy your wand forth­with. You may re­tain your wand un­til your dis­ci­plinary hear­ing on the twelfth of Au­gust, at which time an of­fi­cial de­ci­sion will be tak­en.

Fol­low­ing dis­cus­sions with the Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts School o/ Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, the Min­istry has agreed that the ques­tion of your ex­pul­sion will al­so be de­cid­ed at that time. You should there­fore con­sid­er your­self sus­pend­ed from school pend­ing fur­ther en­quiries.

With best wish­es,

Yours sin­cere­ly,

Mafal­da Hop­kirk

Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice

Min­istry of Mag­ic

Har­ry read this let­ter through three times in quick suc­ces­sion. The mis­er­able knot in his chest loos­ened slight­ly with the re­lief of Know­ing he was not yet def­inite­ly ex­pelled, though his fears were by no means ban­ished. Ev­ery­thing seemed to hang on this hear­ing on the twelfth of Au­gust.

'Well?' said Un­cle Ver­non, re­call­ing Har­ry to his sur­round­ings. 'What now? Have they sen­tenced you to any­thing? Do your lot have the death penal­ty?' he added as a hope­ful af­terthought.

'I've got to go to a hear­ing,' said Har­ry.

'And they'll sen­tence you there?'

'I sup­pose so.'

'I won't give up hope, then,' said Un­cle Ver­non nas­ti­ly.

'Well, if that's all,' said Har­ry, get­ting to his feet. He was des-​per­ate to be alone, to think, per­haps to send a let­ter to Ron, Hermione or Sir­ius.

'NO, IT RUD­DY WELL IS NOT ALL!' bel­lowed Un­cle Ver­non. 'SIT BACK DOWN!'

'What now?' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly.

'DUD­LEY!' roared Un­cle Ver­non. 'I want to know ex­act­ly what hap­pened to my son!'

'FINE!' yelled Har­ry, and in his tem­per, red and gold sparks shot out of the end of his wand, still clutched in his hand. All three Durs­leys flinched, look­ing ter­ri­fied.

'Dud­ley and I were in the al­ley­way be­tween Mag­no­lia Cres­cent and Wis­te­ria Walk,' said Har­ry, speak­ing fast, fight­ing to con­trol his tem­per. 'Dud­ley thought he'd be smart with me, I pulled out my wand but didn't use it. Then two De­men­tors turned up —'

'But what ARE De­men­toids?' asked Un­cle Ver­non fu­ri­ous­ly. 'What do they DO?'

'I told you - they suck all the hap­pi­ness out of you,' said Har­ry, 'and if they get the chance, they kiss you -

'Kiss you?' said Un­cle Ver­non, his eyes pop­ping slight­ly. 'Kiss you?'

'It's what they call it when they suck the soul out of your mouth.'

Aunt Petu­nia ut­tered a soft scream.

'His soul? They didn't take - he's still got his -'

She seized Dud­ley by the shoul­ders and shook him, as though test­ing to see whether she could hear his soul rat­tling around in­side him.

'Of course they didn't get his soul, you'd know if they had,' said Har­ry, ex­as­per­at­ed.

'Fought 'em off, did you, son?' said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly, with the ap­pear­ance of a man strug­gling to bring the con­ver­sa­tion back on to a plane he un­der­stood. 'Gave 'em the old one-​two, did you?'

'You can't give a De­men­tor the old one-​two,' said Har­ry through clenched teeth.

'Why's he all right, then?' blus­tered Un­cle Ver­non. 'Why isn't he all emp­ty, then?'

'Be­cause I used the Pa­tronus -'

WHOOSH. With a clat­ter­ing, a whirring of wings and a soft fall of dust, a fourth owl came shoot­ing out of the kitchen fire­place.

'FOR GOD'S SAKE!' roared Un­cle Ver­non, pulling great clumps of hair out of his mous­tache, some­thing he hadn't been driv­en to do in a long time. 'I WILL NOT HAVE OWLS HERE, I WILL NOT TOL­ER­ATE THIS, I TELL YOU!'

But Har­ry was al­ready pulling a roll of parch­ment from the owl's leg. He was so con­vinced that this let­ter had to be from Dum­ble­dore, ex­plain­ing ev­ery­thing - the De­men­tors, Mrs. Figg, what the Min­istry was up to, how he, Dum­ble­dore, in­tend­ed to sort ev­ery­thing out - that for the first time in his life he was dis­ap­point­ed to see Sir­ius's hand­writ­ing. Ig­nor­ing Un­cle Ver­non's on­go­ing rant about owls, and nar­row­ing his eyes against a sec­ond cloud of dust as the most re­cent owl look off back up the chim­ney, Har­ry read Sir­ius's mes­sage.

Arthur has just told us what's hap­pened. Don't leave the house again, what­ev­er you do.

Har­ry found this such an in­ad­equate re­sponse to ev­ery­thing that had hap­pened tonight that he turned the piece of parch­ment over, look­ing for the rest of the let­ter, but there was noth­ing else.

And now his tem­per was ris­ing again. Wasn't any­body go­ing to say 'well done' for fight­ing off two De­men­tors sin­gle-​hand­ed? Both Mr Weasley and Sir­ius were act­ing as though he'd mis­be­haved, and were sav­ing their tellings-​off un­til they could as­cer­tain how much dam­age had been done.

'… a peck, I mean, pack of owls shoot­ing in and out of my house. I won't have it, boy, I won't -'

'I can't stop the owls com­ing,' Har­ry snapped, crush­ing Sir­ius's let­ter in his fist.

I want the truth about what hap­pened tonight!' barked Un­cle Yi-​rnon. 'If it was De­menders who hurt Dud­ley, how come you've been ex­pelled? You did you-​know-​what, you've ad­mit­ted it!'

Har­ry took a deep, steady­ing breath. His head was be­gin­ning to ache again. He want­ed more than any­thing to get out of the kitchen, and away from the Durs­leys.

'I did the Pa­tronus Charm to get rid of the De­men­tors,' he said, forc­ing him­self to re­main calm. 'It's the on­ly thing that works against them.'

'But what were De­men­toids do­ing in Lit­tle Whing­ing?' said Un­cle Ver­non in an out­raged tone.

'Couldn't tell you,' said Har­ry weari­ly. 'No idea.'

His head was pound­ing in the glare of the strip-​light­ing now. His anger was ebbing away. He felt drained, ex­haust­ed. The Durs­leys were all star­ing at him.

'It's you,' said Un­cle Ver­non force­ful­ly. 'It's got some­thing to do with you, boy, I know it. Why else would they turn up here? Why else would they be down that al­ley­way? You've got to be the on­ly - the on­ly -' Ev­ident­ly, he couldn't bring him­self to say the word 'wiz­ard'. The on­ly you-​know-​what for miles.'

'I don't know why they were here.'

But at Un­cle Ver­non's words, Har­ry's ex­haust­ed brain had ground back in­to ac­tion. Why had the De­men­tors come to Lit­tle Whing­ing? How could it be co­in­ci­dence that they had ar­rived in the al­ley­way where Har­ry was? Had they been sent? Had the Min­istry of Mag­ic lost con­trol of the De­men­tors? Had they de­sert­ed Azk­aban and joined Volde­mort, as Dum­ble­dore had pre­dict­ed they would?

These De­mem­bers guard some weirdo prison?' asked Un­cle Ver­non, lum­ber­ing along in the wake of Har­ry's train of thought.

'Yes,' said Har­ry.

If on­ly his head would stop hurt­ing, if on­ly he could just leave the kitchen and get to his dark bed­room and think…

'Oho! They were com­ing to ar­rest you!' said Un­cle Ver­non, with the tri­umphant air of a man reach­ing an unas­sail­able con­clu­sion. That's it, isn't it, boy? You're on the run from the law!'

'Of course I'm not,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head as though to scare off a fly, his mind rac­ing now.

Then why -?'

'He must have sent them,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly, more to him­self than to Un­cle Ver­non.

'What's that? Who must have sent them?'

'Lord Volde­mort,' said Har­ry.

He reg­is­tered dim­ly how strange it was that the Durs­leys, who flinched, winced and squawked if they heard words like 'wiz­ard', 'mag­ic' or 'wand', could hear the name of the most evil wiz­ard of all time with­out the slight­est tremor.

'Lord - hang on,' said Un­cle Ver­non, his face screwed up, a look of dawn­ing com­pre­hen­sion com­ing in­to his pig­gy eyes. 'I've heard that name… that was the one who —'

'Mur­dered my par­ents, yes,' Har­ry said dul­ly.

'But he's gone,' said Un­cle Ver­non im­pa­tient­ly, with­out the slight­est sign that the mur­der of Har­ry's par­ents might be a painful top­ic. That gi­ant bloke said so. He's gone.'

'He's back,' said Har­ry heav­ily.

It felt very strange to be stand­ing here in Aunt Petu­nia's sur­gi­cal­ly clean kitchen, be­side the top-​of-​the-​range fridge and the wide-​screen tele­vi­sion, talk­ing calm­ly of Lord Volde­mort to Un­cle Ver­non. The ar­rival of the De­men­tors in Lit­tle Whing­ing seemed to have breached the great, in­vis­ible wall that di­vid­ed the re­lent­less­ly non-​mag­ical world of Priv­et Drive and the world be­yond, Har­ry's two lives had some­how be­come fused and ev­ery­thing had been turned up­side-​down; the Durs­leys were ask­ing for de­tails about the mag­ical world, and Mrs. Figg knew Al­bus Dum­ble­dore; De­men­tors were soar­ing around Lit­tle Whing­ing, and he might nev­er re­turn to Hog­warts. Har­ry's head throbbed more painful­ly.

'Back?' whis­pered Aunt Petu­nia.

She was look­ing at Har­ry as she had nev­er looked at him be­fore. And all of a sud­den, for the very first time in his life, Har­ry ful­ly ap­pre­ci­at­ed that Aunt Petu­nia was his moth­er's sis­ter. He could not have said why this hit him so very pow­er­ful­ly at this mo­ment. All he knew was that he was not the on­ly per­son in the room who had an inkling of what Lord Volde­mort be­ing back might mean. Aunt Petu­nia had nev­er in her life looked at him like that be­fore. Her large, pale eyes (so un­like her sis­ter's) were not nar­rowed in dis­like or anger, they were wide and fear­ful. The fu­ri­ous pre­tence that Aunt Petu­nia had main­tained all Har­ry's life - that there was no mag­ic and no world oth­er than the world she in­hab­it­ed with Un­cle Ver­non - seemed to have fall­en away.

'Yes,' Har­ry said, talk­ing di­rect­ly to Aunt Petu­nia now. 'He came back a month ago. I saw him.'

Her hands found Dud­ley's mas­sive leather-​clad shoul­ders and clutched them.

'Hang on,' said Un­cle Ver­non, look­ing from his wife to Har­ry and back again, ap­par­ent­ly dazed and con­fused by the un­prece-​dent­ed un­der­stand­ing that seemed to have sprung up be­tween them. 'Hang on. This Lord Voldy­thing's back, you say.'

'Yes.'

The one who mur­dered your par­ents.'

'Yes.'

'And now he's send­ing Dis­mem­bers af­ter you?'

'Looks like it,' said Har­ry.

'I see,' said Un­cle Ver­non, look­ing from his white-​faced wife to Har­ry and hitch­ing up his trousers. He seemed to be swelling, his great pur­ple face stretch­ing be­fore Har­ry's eyes. 'Well, that set­tles it,' he said, his shirt front strain­ing as he in­flat­ed him­self, 'you can get out of this house, boy!'

'What?' said Har­ry.

'You heard me - OUT!' Un­cle Ver­non bel­lowed, and even Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley jumped. 'OUT! OUT! I should've done this years ago! Owls treat­ing the place like a rest home, pud­dings ex­plod­ing, half the lounge de­stroyed, Dud­ley's tail, Marge bob­bing around on the ceil­ing and that fly­ing Ford An­glia - OUT! OUT! You've had it! You're his­to­ry! You're not stay­ing here if some loony's af­ter you, you're not en­dan­ger­ing my wife and son, you're not bring­ing trou­ble down on us. If you're go­ing the same way as your use­less par­ents, I've had it! OUT!'

Har­ry stood root­ed to the spot. The let­ters from the Min­istry, Mr Weasley and Sir­ius were all crushed in his left hand. Don't leave the house again, what­ev­er you do. DO NOT LEAVE YOUR AUNT AND UN­CLE'S HOUSE.

'You heard me!' said Un­cle Ver­non, bend­ing for­wards now, his mas­sive pur­ple face com­ing so close to Har­ry's, he ac­tu­al­ly felt flecks of spit hit his face. 'Get go­ing! You were all keen to leave half an hour ago! I'm right be­hind you! Get out and nev­er dark­en our doorstep again! Why we ev­er kept you in the first place, I don't know, Marge was right, it should have been the or­phan­age. We were too damn soft for our own good, thought we could squash it out of you, thought we could turn you nor­mal, but you've been rot­ten from the be­gin­ning and I've had enough - owls!'

The fifth owl zoomed down the chim­ney so fast it ac­tu­al­ly hit the floor be­fore zoom­ing in­to the air again with a loud screech. Har­ry raised his hand to seize the let­ter, which was in a scar­let en­ve­lope, but it soared straight over his head, fly­ing di­rect­ly at Aunt Petu­nia, who let out a scream and ducked, her arms over her face. The owl dropped the red en­ve­lope on her head, turned, and flew straight back up the chim­ney.

Har­ry dart­ed for­wards to pick up the let­ter, but Aunt Petu­nia beat him to it.

'You can open it if you like,' said Har­ry, 'but I'll hear what it says any­way. That's a Howler.'

'Let go of it, Petu­nia!' roared Un­cle Ver­non. 'Don't touch it, it could be dan­ger­ous!'

'It's ad­dressed to me,' said Aunt Petu­nia in a shak­ing voice. 'It's ad­dressed to me, Ver­non, look! Mrs. Petu­nia Durs­ley, The Kitchen, Num­ber Four, Priv­et Drive -

She caught her breath, hor­ri­fied. The red en­ve­lope had be­gun to smoke.

'Open it!' Har­ry urged her. 'Get it over with! It'll hap­pen any­way.'

'No.'

Aunt Petu­nia's hand was trem­bling. She looked wild­ly around the kitchen as though look­ing for an es­cape route, but too late -the en­ve­lope burst in­to flames. Aunt Petu­nia screamed and dropped it.

An aw­ful voice filled the kitchen, echo­ing in the con­fined space, is­su­ing from the burn­ing let­ter on the ta­ble.

'Re­mem­ber my last, Petu­nia.'

Aunt Petu­nia looked as though she might faint. She sank in­to the chair be­side Dud­ley, her face in her hands. The re­mains of the en­ve­lope smoul­dered in­to ash in the si­lence.

'What is this?' Un­cle Ver­non said hoarse­ly. 'What - I don't -Petu­nia?'

Aunt Petu­nia said noth­ing. Dud­ley was star­ing stupid­ly at his moth­er, his mouth hang­ing open. The si­lence spi­ralled hor­ri­bly. Har­ry was watch­ing his aunt, ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered, his head throb­bing fit to burst.

'Petu­nia, dear?' said Un­cle Ver­non timid­ly. 'P-​Petu­nia?'

She raised her head. She was still trem­bling. She swal­lowed.

'The boy - the boy will have to stay, Ver­non,' she said weak­ly.

'W-​what?'

'He stays,' she said. She was not look­ing at Har­ry. She got to her feet again.

'He… but Petu­nia…'

'If we throw him out, the neigh­bours will talk,' she said. She was rapid­ly re­gain­ing her usu­al brisk, snap­pish man­ner, though she was still very pale. They'll ask awk­ward ques­tions, they'll want to know where he's gone. We'll have to keep him.'

Un­cle Ver­non was de­flat­ing like an old tyre.

'But Petu­nia, dear -

Aunt Petu­nia ig­nored him. She turned to Har­ry. 'You're to stay in your room,' she said. 'You're not to leave the house. Now get to bed.' Har­ry didn't move. 'Who was that Howler from?'

'Don't ask ques­tions,' Aunt Petu­nia snapped. 'Are you in touch with wiz­ards?'

'I told you to get to bed!'

'What did it mean? Re­mem­ber the last what?'

'Go to bed!'

'How come -?'

'YOU HEARD YOUR AUNT, NOW GO UP TO BED!'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 3 - The Advance Guard


I've just been at­tacked by De­men­tors and I might be ex­pelled from Hog­warts. I want to know what's go­ing on and when I'm go­ing to get out of here.

Har­ry copied these words on to three sep­arate pieces of parch­ment the mo­ment he reached the desk in his dark bed­room. He ad­dressed the first to Sir­ius, the sec­ond to Ron and the third to Hermione. His owl, Hed­wig, was off hunt­ing; her cage stood emp­ty on the desk. Har­ry paced the bed­room wait­ing for her to come back, his head pound­ing, his brain too busy for sleep even though his eyes stung and itched with tired­ness. His back ached from haul­ing Dud­ley home, and the two lumps on his head where the win­dow and Dud­ley had hit him were throb­bing painful­ly.

Up and down he paced, con­sumed with anger and frus­tra­tion, grind­ing his teeth and clench­ing his fists, cast­ing an­gry looks out at the emp­ty, star-​strewn sky ev­ery time he passed the win­dow. De­men­tors sent to get him, Mrs. Figg and Mundun­gus Fletch­er tail­ing him in se­cret, then sus­pen­sion fromHog­warts and a hear­ing at the Min­istry of Mag­ic - and still no one was telling him what was go­ing on.

And what, what, had that Howler been about? Whose voice had echoed so hor­ri­bly, so men­ac­ing­ly, through the kitchen?

Why was he still trapped here with­out in­for­ma­tion? Why was ev­ery­one treat­ing him like some naughty kid? Don't do any more mag­ic, stay in the house…

He kicked his school trunk as he passed it, but far from re­liev­ing his anger he felt worse, as he now had a sharp pain in his toe to deal with in ad­di­tion to the pain in the rest of his body.

Just as he limped past the win­dow, Hed­wig soared through it with a soft rus­tle of wings like a small ghost.

'About time!' Har­ry snarled, as she land­ed light­ly on top of her cage. 'You can put that down, I've got work for you!'

Hed­wig's large, round, am­ber eyes gazed at him re­proach­ful­ly over the dead frog clamped in her beak.

'Come here,' said Har­ry, pick­ing up the three small rolls of parch­ment and a leather thong and ty­ing the scrolls to her scaly leg. Take these straight to Sir­ius, Ron and Hermione and don't come back here with­out good long replies. Keep peck­ing them till they've writ­ten de­cent-​length an­swers if you've got to. Un­der­stand?'

Hed­wig gave a muf­fled hoot­ing noise, her beak still full of frog.

'Get go­ing, then,' said Har­ry.

She took off im­me­di­ate­ly. The mo­ment she'd gone, Har­ry threw him­self down on his bed with­out un­dress­ing and stared at the dark ceil­ing. In ad­di­tion to ev­ery oth­er mis­er­able feel­ing, he now felt guilty that he'd been ir­ri­ta­ble with Hed­wig; she was the on­ly friend he had at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive. But he'd make it up to her when she came back with the an­swers from Sir­ius, Ron and Hermione.

They were bound to write back quick­ly; they couldn't pos­si­bly ig­nore a De­men­tor at­tack. He'd prob­ably wake up to­mor­row to three fat let­ters full of sym­pa­thy and plans for his im­me­di­ate re­moval to The Bur­row. And with that com­fort­ing idea, sleep rolled over him, sti­fling all fur­ther thought.

*

But Hed­wig didn't re­turn next morn­ing. Har­ry spent the day in his bed­room, leav­ing it on­ly to go to the bath­room. Three times that day Aunt Petu­nia shoved food in­to his room through the cat-​flap Un­cle Ver­non had in­stalled three sum­mers ago. Ev­ery time Har­ry heard her ap­proach­ing he tried to ques­tion her about the Howler, but he might as well have in­ter­ro­gat­ed the door­knob for all the an­swers he got. Oth­er­wise, the Durs­leys kept well clear of his bed­room. Har­ry couldn't see the point of forc­ing his com­pa­ny on them; an­oth­er row would achieve noth­ing ex­cept per­haps make him so an­gry he'd per­form more il­le­gal mag­ic.

So it went on for three whole days. Har­ry was al­ter­nate­ly filled with rest­less en­er­gy that made him un­able to set­tle to any­thing, dur­ing which time he paced his bed­room, fu­ri­ous at the whole lot of them for leav­ing him to stew in this mess; and with a lethar­gy so com­plete that he could lie on his bed for an hour at a time, star­ing dazed­ly in­to space, aching with dread at the thought of the Min­istry hear­ing.

What if they ruled against him? What if he was ex­pelled and his wand was snapped in half? What would he do, where would he go? He could not re­turn to liv­ing full-​time with the Durs­leys, not now he knew the oth­er world, the one to which he re­al­ly be­longed. Might he be able to move in­to Sir­iuss house, as Sir­ius had sug­gest­ed a year ago, be­fore he had been forced to flee from the Min­istry? Would Har­ry be al­lowed to live there alone, giv­en that he was still un­der­age? Or would the mat­ter of where he went next be de­cid­ed for him? Had his breach of the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy been se­vere enough to land him in a cell in Azk­aban? When­ev­er this thought oc­curred, Har­ry in­vari­ably slid off his bed and be­gan pac­ing again.

On the fourth night af­ter Hed­wig's de­par­ture Har­ry was ly­ing in one of his ap­athet­ic phas­es, star­ing at the ceil­ing, his ex­haust­ed mind quite blank, when his un­cle en­tered his bed­room. Har­ry looked slow­ly around at him. Un­cle Ver­non was wear­ing his best suit and an ex­pres­sion of enor­mous smug­ness.

'We're go­ing out,' he said.

'Sor­ry?'

'We - that is to say, your aunt, Dud­ley and I - are go­ing out.'

'Fine,' said Har­ry dul­ly, look­ing back at the ceil­ing.

'You are not to leave your bed­room while we are away.'

'OK.'

'You are not to touch the tele­vi­sion, the stereo, or any of our pos­ses­sions.'

'Right.'

'You are not to steal food from the fridge.'

'OK.'

'I am go­ing to lock your door.'

'You do that.'

Un­cle Ver­non glared at Har­ry, clear­ly sus­pi­cious of this lack of ar­gu­ment, then stomped out of the room and closed the door be­hind him. Har­ry heard the key turn in the lock and Un­cle Ver­non's foot­steps walk­ing heav­ily down the stairs. A few min­utes lat­er he heard the slam­ming of car doors, the rum­ble of an en­gine, and the un­mis­take­able sound of the car sweep­ing out of the drive.

Har­ry had no par­tic­ular feel­ing about the Durs­leys leav­ing. It made no dif­fer­ence to him whether they were in the house or not. He could not even sum­mon the en­er­gy to get up and turn on his bed­room light. The room grew steadi­ly dark­er around him as he lay lis­ten­ing to the night sounds through the win­dow he kept open all the time, wait­ing for the blessed mo­ment when Hed­wig re­turned. The emp­ty house creaked around him. The pipes gur­gled. Har­ry lay there in a kind of stu­por, think­ing of noth­ing, sus­pend­ed in mis­ery.

Then, quite dis­tinct­ly, he heard a crash in the kitchen be­low. He sat bolt up­right, lis­ten­ing in­tent­ly. The Durs­leys couldn't be back, it was much too soon, and in any case he hadn't heard their car.

There was si­lence for a few sec­onds, then voic­es. Bur­glars, he thought, slid­ing off the bed on to his feet - but a split sec­ond lat­er it oc­curred to him that bur­glars would keep their voic­es down, and who­ev­er was mov­ing around in the kitchen was cer­tain­ly not trou­bling to do so.

He snatched up his wand from the bed­side ta­ble and stood fac­ing his bed­room door, lis­ten­ing with all his might. Next mo­ment, he jumped as the lock gave a loud click and his door swung open. Har­ry stood mo­tion­less, star­ing through the open door­way at the dark up­stairs land­ing, strain­ing his ears for fur­ther sounds, but none came. He hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then moved swift­ly and silent­ly out of his room to the head of the stairs.

His heart shot up­wards in­to his throat. There were peo­ple stand­ing in the shad­owy hall be­low, sil­hou­et­ted against the street­light glow­ing through the glass door; eight or nine of them, all, as far as he could see, look­ing up at him.

'Low­er your wand, boy, be­fore you take some­one's eye out,' said a low, growl­ing voice.

Har­ry's heart was thump­ing un­con­trol­lably. He knew that voice, but he did not low­er his wand.

'Pro­fes­sor Moody?' he said un­cer­tain­ly.

'I don't know so much about “Pro­fes­sor”,' growled the voice, 'nev­er got round to much teach­ing, did I? Get down here, we want to see you prop­er­ly.'

Har­ry low­ered his wand slight­ly but did not re­lax his grip on it, nor did he move. He had very good rea­son to be sus­pi­cious. He had re­cent­ly spent nine months in what he had thought was Mad-​Eye Moody's com­pa­ny on­ly to find out that it wasn't Moody at all, but an im­pos­tor; an im­pos­tor, more­over, who had tried to kill Har­ry be­fore be­ing un­masked. But be­fore he could make a de­ci­sion about what to do next, a sec­ond, slight­ly hoarse voice float­ed up­stairs.

'It's all right, Har­ry. We've come to take you away.'

Har­ry's heart leapt. He knew that voice, too, though he hadn't heard it for over a year.

'P-​Pro­fes­sor Lupin?' he said dis­be­liev­ing­ly. 'Is that you?'

'Why are we all stand­ing in the dark?' said a third voice, this one com­plete­ly un­fa­mil­iar, a wom­an's. 'Lu­mos.'

A wand-​tip flared, il­lu­mi­nat­ing the hall with mag­ical light. Har­ry blinked. The peo­ple be­low were crowd­ed around the foot of the stairs, gaz­ing up at him in­tent­ly, some cran­ing their heads for a bet­ter look.

Re­mus Lupin stood near­est to him. Though still quite young, Lupin looked tired and rather ill; he had more grey hairs than when Har­ry had last said good­bye to him and his robes were more patched and shab­bier than ev­er. Nev­er­the­less, he was smil­ing broad­ly at Har­ry, who tried to smile back de­spite his state of shock.

'Oooh, he looks just like I thought he would,' said the witch who was hold­ing her lit wand aloft. She looked the youngest there; she had a pale heart-​shaped face, dark twin­kling eyes, and short spiky hair that was a vi­olent shade of vi­olet. 'Wotch­er, Har­ry!'

'Yeah, I see what you mean, Re­mus,' said a bald black wiz­ard stand­ing fur­thest back - he had a deep, slow voice and wore a sin­gle gold hoop in his ear - 'he looks ex­act­ly like James.'

'Ex­cept the eyes,' said a wheezy-​voiced, sil­ver-​haired wiz­ard at the back. 'Lily's eyes.'

Mad-​Eye Moody, who had long griz­zled grey hair and a large chunk miss­ing from his nose, was squint­ing sus­pi­cious­ly at Har­ry through his mis­matched eyes. One eye was small, dark and beady, the oth­er large, round and elec­tric blue - the mag­ical eye that could see through walls, doors and the back of Moody's own head. 'Are you quite sure it's him, Lupin?' he growled. 'It'd be a nice look­out if we bring back some Death Eater im­per­son­at­ing him. We ought to ask him some­thing on­ly the re­al Pot­ter would know. Un­less any­one brought any Ver­itaserum?'

'Har­ry, what form does your Pa­tronus take?' Lupin asked. 'A stag,' said Har­ry ner­vous­ly. That's him, Mad-​Eye,' said Lupin.

Very con­scious of ev­ery­body still star­ing at him, Har­ry de­scend­ed the stairs, stow­ing his wand in the back pock­et of his jeans as he came.

'Don't put your wand there, boy!' roared Moody. 'What if it ig­nit­ed? Bet­ter wiz­ards than you have lost but­tocks, you know!'

'Who d'you know who's lost a but­tock?' the vi­olet-​haired wom­an asked Mad-​Eye in­ter­est­ed­ly.

'Nev­er you mind, you just keep your wand out of your back pock­et!' growled Mad-​Eye. 'El­emen­tary wand-​safe­ty, no­body both­ers about it any more.' He stumped off to­wards the kitchen. 'And I saw that,' he added ir­ri­ta­bly, as the wom­an rolled her eyes to­wards the ceil­ing.

Lupin held out his hand and shook Har­ry's. 'How are you?' he asked, look­ing close­ly at Har­ry. T-​fine…'

Har­ry could hard­ly be­lieve this was re­al. Four weeks with noth­ing, not the tini­est hint of a plan to re­move him from Priv­et Drive, and sud­den­ly a whole bunch of wiz­ards was stand­ing mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly in the house as though this was a long-​stand­ing ar­range­ment. He glanced at the peo­ple sur­round­ing Lupin; they were still gaz­ing avid­ly at him. He felt very con­scious of the fact that he had not combed his hair for four days.

'I'm - you're re­al­ly lucky the Durs­leys are out…' he mum­bled.

'Lucky, ha!' said the vi­olet-​haired wom­an. 'It was me who lured them out of the way. Sent a let­ter by Mug­gle post telling them they'd been short-​list­ed for the All-​Eng­land Best Kept Sub­ur­ban Lawn Com­pe­ti­tion. They're head­ing off to the prize-​giv­ing right now… or they think they are.'

Har­ry had a fleet­ing vi­sion of Un­cle Ver­non's face when he re­alised there was no All-​Eng­land Best Kept Sub­ur­ban Lawn Com­pe­ti­tion.

'We are leav­ing, aren't we?' he asked. 'Soon?'

Al­most at once,' said Lupin, 'we're just wait­ing for the all-​clear.'

'Where are we go­ing? The Bur­row?' Har­ry asked hope­ful­ly.

'Not The Bur­row, no,' said Lupin, mo­tion­ing Har­ry to­wards the kitchen; the lit­tle knot of wiz­ards fol­lowed, all still eye­ing Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly. Too risky. We've set up Head­quar­ters some­where un-​de­tectable. It's tak­en a while…'

Mad-​Eye Moody was now sit­ting at the kitchen ta­ble swig­ging from a hip flask, his mag­ical eye spin­ning in all di­rec­tions, tak­ing in the Durs­leys' many labour-​sav­ing ap­pli­ances.

'This is Alas­tor Moody, Har­ry' Lupin con­tin­ued, point­ing to­wards Moody.

'Yeah, I know,' said Har­ry un­com­fort­ably. It felt odd to be in­tro-​duced to some­body he'd thought he'd known for a year.

'And this is Nymphado­ra -'

'Don't call me Nymphado­ra, Re­mus,' said the young witch with a shud­der, 'it's Tonks.'

'Nymphado­ra Tonks, who prefers to be known by her sur­name on­ly,' fin­ished Lupin.

'So would you if your fool of a moth­er had called you Nymphado­ra,' mut­tered Tonks.

'And this is Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt.' He in­di­cat­ed the tall black wiz­ard, who bowed. 'El­phias Doge.' The wheezy-​voiced wiz­ard nod­ded. 'Dedalus Dig­gle -'

'We've met be­fore,' squeaked the ex­citable Dig­gle, drop­ping his vi­olet-​coloured top hat.

'Em­me­line Vance.' A state­ly-​look­ing witch in an emer­ald green shawl in­clined her head. 'Stur­gis Pod­more.' A square-​jawed wiz­ard with thick straw-​coloured hair winked. 'And Hes­tia Jones.' A pink-​cheeked, black-​haired witch waved from next to the toast­er.

Har­ry in­clined his head awk­ward­ly at each of them as they were in­tro­duced. He wished they would look at some­thing oth­er than him; it was as though he had sud­den­ly been ush­ered on-​stage. He al­so won­dered why so many of them were there.

'A sur­pris­ing num­ber of peo­ple vol­un­teered to come and get you,' said Lupin, as though he had read Har­ry's mind; the cor­ners of his mouth twitched slight­ly.

'Yeah, well, the more the bet­ter,' said Moody dark­ly. 'We're your guard, Pot­ter.'

'We're just wait­ing for the sig­nal to tell us it's safe to set off,' said Lupin, glanc­ing out of the kitchen win­dow. 'We've got about fif­teen min­utes.'

'Very clean, aren't they, these Mug­gles?' said the witch called Tonks, who was look­ing around the kitchen with great in­ter­est. 'My dad's Mug­gle-​born and he's a right old slob. I sup­pose it varies, just as it does with wiz­ards?'

'Er - yeah,' said Har­ry. 'Look -' he turned back to Lupin, 'what's go­ing on, I haven't heard any­thing from any­one, what's Vol—?'

Sev­er­al of the witch­es and wiz­ards made odd hiss­ing nois­es; Dedalus Dig­gle dropped his hat again and Moody growled, 'Shut up!'

What?' said Har­ry.

'We're not dis­cussing any­thing here, it's too risky,' said Moody, turn­ing his nor­mal eye on Har­ry. His mag­ical eye re­mained fo­cused on the ceil­ing. 'Damn it,' he added an­gri­ly, putting a hand up to the mag­ical eye, 'it keeps get­ting stuck - ev­er since that scum wore it.'

And with a nasty squelch­ing sound much like a plunger be­ing pulled from a sink, he popped out his eye.

'Mad-​Eye, you do know that's dis­gust­ing, don't you?' said Tonks con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly.

'Get me a glass of wa­ter, would you, Har­ry,' re­quest­ed Moody.

Har­ry crossed to the dish­wash­er, took out a clean glass and filled it with wa­ter at the sink, still watched ea­ger­ly by the band of wiz­ards. Their re­lent­less star­ing was start­ing to an­noy him.

'Cheers,' said Moody, when Har­ry hand­ed him the glass. He dropped the mag­ical eye­ball in­to the wa­ter and prod­ded it up and down; the eye whizzed around, star­ing at them all in turn. 'I want three hun­dred and six­ty de­grees vis­ibil­ity on the re­turn jour­ney.'

'How're we get­ting - wher­ev­er we're go­ing?' Har­ry asked.

'Brooms,' said Lupin. 'On­ly way. You're too young to Ap­pa­rate, they'll be watch­ing the Floo Net­work and it's more than our life's worth to set up an unau­tho­rised Portkey.'

'Re­mus says you're a good fli­er,' said Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt in his deep voice.

'He's ex­cel­lent,' said Lupin, who was check­ing his watch. 'Any­way, you'd bet­ter go and get packed, Har­ry, we want to be ready to go when the sig­nal comes.'

'I'll come and help you,' said Tonks bright­ly.

She fol­lowed Har­ry back in­to the hall and up the stairs, look­ing around with much cu­rios­ity and in­ter­est.

'Fun­ny place,' she said. 'It's a bit too clean, d'you know what I mean? Bit un­nat­ural. Oh, this is bet­ter,' she added, as they en­tered Har­ry's bed­room and he turned on the light.

His room was cer­tain­ly much messier than the rest of the house. Con­fined to it for four days in a very bad mood, Har­ry had not both­ered tidy­ing up af­ter him­self. Most of the books he owned were strewn over the floor where he'd tried to dis­tract him­self with each in turn and thrown it aside; Hed­wig's cage need­ed clean­ing out and was start­ing to smell; and his trunk lay open, re­veal­ing a jum­bled mix­ture of Mug­gle clothes and wiz­ards' robes that had spilled on to the floor around it.

Har­ry start­ed pick­ing up books and throw­ing them hasti­ly in­to his trunk. Tonks paused at his open wardrobe to look crit­ical­ly at her re­flec­tion in the mir­ror on the in­side of the door.

'You know, I don't think vi­olet's re­al­ly my colour,' she said pen-​sivey, tug­ging at a lock of spiky hair. 'D'you think it makes me look a bit peaky?'

'Er -' said Har­ry, look­ing up at her over the top of Quid­ditch Teams of Britain and Ire­land.

'Yeah, it does,' said Tonks de­ci­sive­ly. She screwed up her eyes in a strained ex­pres­sion as though she was strug­gling to re­mem­ber some­thing. A sec­ond lat­er, her hair had turned bub­ble-​gum pink.

'How did you do that?' said Har­ry, gap­ing at her as she opened her eyes again.

'I'm a Meta­mor­phma­gus,' she said, look­ing back at her re­flec-​tion and turn­ing her head so that she could see her hair from all di­rec­tions. 'It means I can change my ap­pear­ance at will,' she added, spot­ting Har­rys puz­zled ex­pres­sion in the mir­ror be­hind her. 'I was born one. I got top marks in Con­ceal­ment and Dis­guise dur­ing Au­ror train­ing with­out any study at all, it was great.'

'You're an Au­ror?' said Har­ry, im­pressed. Be­ing a Dark-​wiz­ard-​catch­er was the on­ly ca­reer he'd ev­er con­sid­ered af­ter Hog­warts.

'Yeah,' said Tonks, look­ing proud. 'Kings­ley is as well, he's a bit high­er up than me, though. I on­ly qual­ified a year ago. Near­ly failed on Stealth and Track­ing. I'm dead clum­sy, did you hear me break that plate when we ar­rived down­stairs?'

'Can you learn how to be a Meta­mor­phma­gus?' Har­ry asked her, straight­en­ing up, com­plete­ly for­get­ting about pack­ing.

Tonks chuck­led.

'Bet you wouldn't mind hid­ing that scar some­times, eh?'

Her eyes found the light­ning-​shaped scar on Har­rys fore­head.

'No, I wouldn't mind,' Har­ry mum­bled, turn­ing away. He did not like peo­ple star­ing at his scar.

'Well, you'll have to learn the hard way, I'm afraid,' said Tonks. 'Meta­mor­phma­gi are re­al­ly rare, they're born, not made. Most wiz­ards need to use a wand, or po­tions, to change their ap­pear­ance. But we've got to get go­ing, Har­ry, we're sup­posed to be pack­ing,' she added guilti­ly, look­ing around at all the mess on the floor.

'Oh — yeah,' said Har­ry, grab­bing a few more books.

'Don't be stupid, it'll be much quick­er if I - pack!' cried Tonks, wav­ing her wand in a long, sweep­ing move­ment over the floor.

Books, clothes, tele­scope and scales all soared in­to the air and flew pell-​mell in­to the trunk.

'It's not very neat,' said Tonks, walk­ing over to the trunk and look­ing down at the jum­ble in­side. 'My mums got this knack of get­ting stuff to fit it­self in neat­ly - she even gets the socks to fold them­selves - but I've nev­er mas­tered how she does it - it's a kind of flick -' She flicked her wand hope­ful­ly.

One of Har­ry's socks gave a fee­ble sort of wig­gle and flopped back on top of the mess in the trunk.

'Ah, well,' said Tonks, slam­ming the trunk's lid shut, 'at least it's all in. That could do with a bit of clean­ing, too.' She point­ed her wand at Hed­wig's cage. 'Scourgi­fy.' A few feath­ers and drop­pings van­ished. 'Well, that's a bit bet­ter - I've nev­er quite got the hang of these house­holdy sort of spells. Right - got ev­ery­thing? Caul­dron? Broom? Wow! - A Fire­boltT

Her eyes widened as they fell on the broom­stick in Har­ry's right hand It was his pride and joy, a gift from Sir­ius, an in­ter­na­tion­al-​stan­dard broom­stick.

'And I'm still rid­ing a Comet Two Six­ty' said Tonks en­vi­ous­ly. 'Ah well… wand still in your jeans? Both but­tocks still on? OK, let's go. Lo­co­mo­tor trunk.'

Har­ry's trunk rose a few inch­es in­to the air. Hold­ing her wand like a con­duc­tor's ba­ton, Tonks made the trunk hov­er across the room and out of the door ahead of them, Hed­wig's cage in her left hand. Har­ry fol­lowed her down the stairs car­ry­ing his broom­stick.

Back in the kitchen Moody had re­placed his eye, which was spin­ning so fast af­ter its clean­ing it made Har­ry feel sick to look at it. Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt and Stur­gis Pod­more were ex­am­in­ing the mi­crowave and Hes­tia Jones was laugh­ing at a pota­to peel­er she had come across while rum­mag­ing in the draw­ers. Lupin was seal­ing a let­ter ad­dressed to the Durs­leys.

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Lupin, look­ing up as Tonks and Har­ry en­tered. We've got about a minute, I think. We should prob­ably get out in­to the gar­den so we're ready. Har­ry, I've left a let­ter telling your aunt and un­cle not to wor­ry -

They won't,' said Har­ry.

- that you're safe -'That'll just de­press them.'

- and you'll see them next sum­mer.'

'Do I have to?'

Lupin smiled but made no an­swer.

'Come here, boy,' said Moody gruffly, beck­on­ing Har­ry to­wards him with his wand. 'I need to Dis­il­lu­sion you.'

'You need to what?' said Har­ry ner­vous­ly.

'Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm,' said Moody, rais­ing his wand. 'Lupin says you've got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, but it won't stay on while we're fly­ing; this'll dis­guise you bet­ter. Here you go -

He rapped him hard on the top of the head and Har­ry felt a cu­ri­ous sen­sa­tion as though Moody had just smashed an egg there;

cold trick­les seemed to be run­ning down his body from the point the wand had struck.

'Nice one, Mad-​Eye,' said Tonks ap­pre­cia­tive­ly, star­ing at Har­ry's midriff.

Har­ry looked down at his body, or rather, what had been his body, for it didn't look any­thing like his any more. It was not in­vis­ible; it had sim­ply tak­en on the ex­act colour and tex­ture of the kitchen unit be­hind him. He seemed to have be­come a hu­man chameleon.

'Come on,' said Moody, un­lock­ing the back door with his wand.

They all stepped out­side on to Un­cle Ver­non's beau­ti­ful­ly kept lawn.

'Clear night,' grunt­ed Moody, his mag­ical eye scan­ning the heav­ens. 'Could've done with a bit more cloud cov­er. Right, you,' he barked at Har­ry, 'we're go­ing to be fly­ing in close for­ma­tion. Tonks'll be right in front of you, keep close on her tail. Lupin'll be cov­er­ing you from be­low I'm go­ing to be be­hind you. The rest'll be cir­cling us. We don't break ranks for any­thing, got me? If one of us is killed -

'Is that like­ly?' Har­ry asked ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, but Moody ig­nored him.

- the oth­ers keep fly­ing, don't stop, don't break ranks. If they take out all of us and you sur­vive, Har­ry, the rear guard are stand­ing by to take over; keep fly­ing east and they'll join you.'

'Stop be­ing so cheer­ful, Mad-​Eye, he'll think we're not tak­ing this se­ri­ous­ly' said Tonks, as she strapped Har­ry's trunk and Hed­wig's cage in­to a har­ness hang­ing from her broom.

'I'm just telling the boy the plan,' growled Moody. 'Our jobs to de­liv­er him safe­ly to Head­quar­ters and if we die in the at­tempt -

'No one's go­ing to die,' said Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt in his deep, calm­ing voice.

'Mount your brooms, that's the first sig­nal!' said Lupin sharply point­ing in­to the sky.

Far, far above them, a show­er of bright red sparks had flared among the stars, Har­ry recog­nised them at once as wand sparks. He swung his right leg over his Fire­bolt, gripped its han­dle tight­ly and felt it vi­brat­ing very slight­ly, as though it was as keen as he was to be up in the air once more.

'Sec­ond sig­nal, let's go!' said Lupin loud­ly as more sparks, green this time, ex­plod­ed high above them.

Har­ry kicked off hard from the ground. The cool night air rushed through his hair as the neat square gar­dens of Priv­et Drive fell away, shrink­ing rapid­ly in­to a patch­work of dark greens and blacks, and ev­ery thought of the Min­istry hear­ing was swept from his mind as though the rush of air had blown it out of his head. He felt as though his heart was go­ing to ex­plode with plea­sure; he was fly­ing again, fly­ing away from Priv­et Drive as he'd been fan­ta­sis­ing about all sum­mer, he was go­ing home… for a few glo­ri­ous mo­ments, all his prob­lems seemed to re­cede to noth­ing, in­signif­icant in the vast, star­ry sky.

'Hard left, hard left, there's a Mug­gle look­ing up!' shout­ed Moody from be­hind him. Tonks swerved and Har­ry fol­lowed her, watch­ing his trunk swing­ing wild­ly be­neath her broom. 'We need more height… give it an­oth­er quar­ter of a mile!'

Har­ry's eyes wa­tered in the chill as they soared up­wards; he could see noth­ing be­low now but tiny pin­pricks of light that were car head­lights and street­lamps. Two of those tiny lights might be­long to Un­cle Ver­non's car… the Durs­leys would be head­ing back to their emp­ty house right now, full of rage about the non-​ex­is­tent Lawn Com­pe­ti­tion… and Har­ry laughed aloud at the thought, though his voice was drowned by the flap­ping robes of the oth­ers, the creak­ing of the har­ness hold­ing his trunk and the cage, and the whoosh of the wind in their ears as they sped through the air. He had not felt this alive in a month, or this hap­py.

'Bear­ing south!' shout­ed Mad-​Eye. Town ahead!'

They soared right to avoid pass­ing di­rect­ly over the glit­ter­ing spi­der's web of lights be­low.

'Bear south­east and keep climb­ing, there's some low cloud ahead we can lose our­selves in!' called Moody.

'We're not go­ing through clouds!' shout­ed Tonks an­gri­ly, 'we'll get soaked, Mad-​Eye!'

Har­ry was re­lieved to hear her say this; his hands were grow­ing numb on the Fire­bolt's han­dle. He wished he had thought to put on a coat; he was start­ing to shiv­er.

They al­tered their course ev­ery now and then ac­cord­ing to Mad-​Eyes in­struc­tions. Har­rys eyes were screwed up against the rush of icy wind that was start­ing to make his ears ache; he could re­mem­ber be­ing this cold on a broom on­ly once be­fore, dur­ing the Quid­ditch match against Huf­flepuff in his third year, which had tak­en place in a storm. The guard around him was cir­cling con­tin­uous­ly like gi­ant birds of prey. Har­ry lost track of time. He won­dered how long they had been fly­ing, it felt like an hour at least.

Turn­ing south­west!' yelled Moody 'We want to avoid the mo­tor­way!'

Har­ry was now so chilled he thought long­ing­ly of the snug, dry in­te­ri­ors of the cars stream­ing along be­low, then, even more long­ing­ly, of trav­el­ling by Floo pow­der; it might be un­com­fort­able to spin around in fire­places but it was at least warm in the flames… Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt swooped around him, bald pate and ear­ring gleam­ing slight­ly in the moon­light… now Em­me­line Vance was on his right, her wand out, her head turn­ing left and right… then she, too, swooped over him, to be re­placed by Stur­gis Pod­more…

'We ought to dou­ble back for a bit, just to make sure we're not be­ing fol­lowed!' Moody shout­ed.

'ARE YOU MAD, MAD-​EYE?' Tonks screamed from the front. We're all frozen to our brooms! If we keep go­ing off-​course we're not go­ing to get there un­til next week! Be­sides, we're near­ly there now!'

Time to start the de­scent!' came Lupin's voice. 'Fol­low Tonks, Har­ry!'

Har­ry fol­lowed Tonks in­to a dive. They were head­ing for the largest col­lec­tion of lights he had yet seen, a huge, sprawl­ing criss­cross­ing mass, glit­ter­ing in lines and grids, in­ter­spersed with patch­es of deep­est black. Low­er and low­er they flew, un­til Har­ry could see in­di­vid­ual head­lights and street­lamps, chim­neys and tele­vi­sion aeri­als. He want­ed to reach the ground very much, though he felt sure some­one would have to un­freeze him from his broom.

'Here we go!' called Tonks, and a few sec­onds lat­er she had land­ed.

Har­ry touched down right be­hind her and dis­mount­ed on a patch of un­kempt grass in the mid­dle of a small square. Tonks was al­ready un­buck­ling Har­ry's trunk. Shiv­er­ing, Har­ry looked around. The grimy fronts of the sur­round­ing hous­es were not wel­com­ing; some of them had bro­ken win­dows, glim­mer­ing dul­ly in the light fro the street­lamps, paint was peel­ing from many of the doors and heaps of rub­bish lay out­side sev­er­al sets of front steps.

'Where are we?' Har­ry asked, but Lupin said qui­et­ly, 'In a minute.'

Moody was rum­mag­ing in his cloak, his gnarled hands clum­sy with cold.

'Got it,' he mut­tered, rais­ing what looked like a sil­ver cigarette lighter in­to the air and click­ing it.

The near­est street­lamp went out with a pop. He clicked the un­lighter again; the next lamp went out; he kept click­ing un­til ev­ery lamp in the square was ex­tin­guished and the on­ly re­main­ing light came from cur­tained win­dows and the sick­le moon over­head.

'Bor­rowed it from Dum­ble­dore,' growled Moody, pock­et­ing the Put-​Out­er. That'll take care of any Mug­gles look­ing out of the win­dow, see? Now come on, quick.'

He took Har­ry by the arm and led him from the patch of grass, across the road and on to the pave­ment; Lupin and Tonks fol­lowed, car­ry­ing Har­ry's trunk be­tween them, the rest of the guard, all with their wands out, flank­ing them.

The muf­fled pound­ing of a stereo was com­ing from an up­per win­dow in the near­est house. A pun­gent smell of rot­ting rub­bish came from the pile of bulging bin-​bags just in­side the bro­ken gate.

'Here,' Moody mut­tered, thrust­ing a piece of parch­ment to­wards Har­ry's Dis­il­lu­sioned hand and hold­ing his lit wand close to it, so as to il­lu­mi­nate the writ­ing. 'Read quick­ly and mem­orise.'

Har­ry looked down at the piece of pa­per. The nar­row hand­writ­ing was vague­ly fa­mil­iar. It said:

The Head­quar­ters of the Or­der of the Phoenix may be found at num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place , Lon­don .





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 4 - Number...


'What's the Or­der of the -?' Har­ry be­gan.

'Not here, boy!' snarled Moody. 'Wait till we're in­side!'

He pulled the piece of parch­ment out of Har­ry's hand and set fire to it with his wand-​tip. As the mes­sage curled in­to flames and float­ed to the ground, Har­ry looked around at the hous­es again. They were stand­ing out­side num­ber eleven; he looked to the left and saw num­ber ten; to the right, how­ev­er, was num­ber thir­teen.

'But where's -?'

Think about what you've just mem­orised,' said Lupin qui­et­ly.

Har­ry thought, and no soon­er had he reached the part about num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place, than a bat­tered door emerged out of nowhere be­tween num­bers eleven and thir­teen, fol­lowed swift­ly by dirty walls and grimy win­dows. It was as though an ex­tra house had in­flat­ed, push­ing those on ei­ther side out of its way. Har­ry gaped at it. The stereo in num­ber eleven thud­ded on. Ap­par­ent­ly the Mug­gles in­side hadn't felt any­thing.

'Come on, hur­ry,' growled Moody, prod­ding Har­ry in the back.

Har­ry walked up the worn stone steps, star­ing at the new­ly ma­te­ri­alised door. Its black paint was shab­by and scratched. The sil­ver door­knock­er was in the form of a twist­ed ser­pent. There was no key­hole or let­ter­box.

Lupin pulled out his wand and tapped the door once. Har­ry heard many loud, metal­lic clicks and what sound­ed like the clat­ter of a chain. The door creaked open.

'Get in quick, Har­ry,' Lupin whis­pered, 'but don't go far in­side and don't touch any­thing.'

Har­ry stepped over the thresh­old in­to the al­most to­tal dark­ness of the hall. He could smell damp, dust and a sweet­ish, rot­ting smell; the place had the feel­ing of a derelict build­ing. He looked over his shoul­der and saw the oth­ers fil­ing in be­hind him, Lupin and Tonks car­ry­ing his trunk and Hed­wig's cage. Moody was stand­ing on the top step re­leas­ing the balls of light the Put-​Out­er had stolen from the street­lamps; they flew back to their bulbs and the square glowed mo­men­tar­ily with or­ange light be­fore Moody limped in­side and closed the front door, so that the dark­ness in the hall be­came com­plete.

'Here -'

He rapped Har­ry hard over the head with his wand; Har­ry felt as though some­thing hot was trick­ling down his back this time and knew that the Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm must have lift­ed.

'Now stay still, ev­ery­one, while I give us a bit of light in here,' Moody whis­pered.

The oth­ers' hushed voic­es were giv­ing Har­ry an odd feel­ing of fore­bod­ing; it was as though they had just en­tered the house of a dy­ing per­son. He heard a soft hiss­ing noise and then old-​fash­ioned gas lamps sput­tered in­to life all along the walls, cast­ing a flick­er­ing in­sub­stan­tial light over the peel­ing wall­pa­per and thread­bare car­pet of a long, gloomy hall­way, where a cob­web­by chan­de­lier glim­mered over­head and age-​black­ened por­traits hung crooked on the walls. Har­ry heard some­thing scut­tling be­hind the skirt­ing board. Both the chan­de­lier and the can­de­labra on a rick­ety ta­ble near­by were shaped like ser­pents.

There were hur­ried foot­steps and Rons moth­er, Mrs. Weasley, emerged from a door at the far end of the hall. She was beam­ing in wel­come as she hur­ried to­wards them, though Har­ry no­ticed that she was rather thin­ner and paler than she had been last time he had seen her.

'Oh, Har­ry, it's love­ly to see you!' she whis­pered, pulling him in­to a rib-​crack­ing hug be­fore hold­ing him at arm's length and ex­am­in­ing him crit­ical­ly. 'You're look­ing peaky; you need feed­ing up, but you'll have to wait a bit for din­ner, I'm afraid.'

She turned to the gang of wiz­ards be­hind him and whis­pered ur­gent­ly, 'He's just ar­rived, the meet­ing's start­ed.'

The wiz­ards be­hind Har­ry all made nois­es of in­ter­est and ex­cite­ment and be­gan fil­ing past him to­wards the door through which Mrs. Weasley had just come. Har­ry made to fol­low Lupin, but Mrs. Weasley held him back.

'No, Har­ry, the meet­ings on­ly for mem­bers of the Or­der. Ron and Hermione are up­stairs, you can wait with them un­til the meet­ings over, then we'll have din­ner. And keep your voice down in the hall,' she added in an ur­gent whis­per.

'Why?'

'I don't want any­thing to wake up.'

'What d'you -?'

Til ex­plain lat­er, I've got to hur­ry, I'm sup­posed to be at the meet­ing - I'll just show you where you're sleep­ing.'

Press­ing her fin­ger to her lips, she led him on tip­toe past a pair of long, moth-​eat­en cur­tains, be­hind which Har­ry sup­posed there must be an­oth­er door, and af­ter skirt­ing a large um­brel­la stand that looked as though it had been made from a sev­ered troll's leg they start­ed up the dark stair­case, pass­ing a row of shrunk­en heads mount­ed on plaques on the wall. A clos­er look showed Har­ry that the heads be­longed to house-​elves. All of them had the same rather snout-​like nose.

Har­ry's be­wil­der­ment deep­ened with ev­ery step he took. What on earth were they do­ing in a house that looked as though it be­longed to the Dark­est of wiz­ards?

'Mrs. Weasley, why -?'

'Ron and Hermione will ex­plain ev­ery­thing, dear, I've re­al­ly got to dash,' Mrs. Weasley whis­pered dis­tract­ed­ly. There -' they had reached the sec­ond land­ing, '- you're the door on the right. I'll call you when it's over.'

And she hur­ried off down­stairs again.

Har­ry crossed the dingy land­ing, turned the bed­room door­knob, which was shaped like a ser­pents head, and opened the door.

He caught a brief glimpse of a gloomy high-​ceilinged, twin-​bed­ded room; then there was a loud twit­ter­ing noise, fol­lowed by an even loud­er shriek, and his vi­sion was com­plete­ly ob­scured by a large quan­ti­ty of very bushy hair. Hermione had thrown her­self on to him in a hug that near­ly knocked him flat, while Ron's tiny owl, Pig­wid­geon, zoomed ex­cit­ed­ly round and round their heads.

'HAR­RY! Ron, he's here, Har­rys here! We didn't hear you ar­rive! Oh, how are you? Are you all right? Have you been fu­ri­ous with us? I bet you have, I know our let­ters were use­less - but we couldn't tell you any­thing, Dum­ble­dore made us swear we wouldn't, oh, we've got so much to tell you, and you've got things to tell us -the De­men­tors! When we heard - and that Min­istry hear­ing - it's just out­ra­geous, I've looked it all up, they can't ex­pel you, they just can't, there's pro­vi­sion in the De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery for the use of mag­ic in life-​threat­en­ing sit­ua­tions -'

'Let him breathe, Hermione,' said Ron, grin­ning as he closed the door be­hind Har­ry. He seemed to have grown sev­er­al more inch­es dur­ing their month apart, mak­ing him taller and more gan­gly look­ing than ev­er, though the long nose, bright red hair and freck­les were the same.

Still beam­ing, Hermione let go of Har­ry, but be­fore she could say an­oth­er word there was a soft whoosh­ing sound and some­thing white soared from the top of a dark wardrobe and land­ed gen­tly on Har­rys shoul­der.

'Hed­wig!'

The snowy owl clicked her beak and nib­bled his ear af­fec­tion­ate­ly as Har­ry stroked her feath­ers.

'She's been in a right state,' said Ron. 'Pecked us half to death when she brought your last let­ters, look at this -'

He showed Har­ry the in­dex fin­ger ol his right hand, which sport­ed a half-​healed but clear­ly deep cut.

'Oh, yeah,' Har­ry said. 'Sor­ry about that, but I want­ed an­swers, you know -'

'We want­ed to give them to you, mate,' said Ron. 'Hermione was go­ing spare, she kept say­ing you'd do some­thing stupid if you were stuck all on your own with­out news, but Dum­ble­dore made us -'

'— swear not to tell me,' said Har­ry. 'Yeah, Hermione's al­ready said. '

The warm glow that had flared in­side him at the sight of his two best friends was ex­tin­guished as some­thing icy flood­ed the pit of his stom­ach. All of a sud­den - af­ter yearn­ing to see them for a sol­id month — he felt he would rather Ron and Hermione left him alone.

There was a strained si­lence in which Har­ry stroked Hed­wig au­to­mat­ical­ly, not look­ing at ei­ther of the oth­ers.

'He seemed to think it was best,' said Hermione rather breath­less­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore, I mean.'

'Right,' said Har­ry. He no­ticed that her hands, too, bore the marks of Hed­wigs beak and found that he was not at all sor­ry.

'I think he thought you were safest with the Mug­gles -' Ron be­gan.

'Yeah?' said Har­ry, rais­ing his eye­brows. 'Have ei­ther of you been at­tacked by De­men­tors this sum­mer?'

'Well, no - but that's why he's had peo­ple from the Or­der of the Phoenix tail­ing you all the time -'

Har­ry felt a great jolt in his guts as though he had just missed a step go­ing down­stairs. So ev­ery­one had known he was be­ing fol­lowed, ex­cept him.

'Didn't work that well, though, did it?' said Har­ry, do­ing his ut­most to keep his voice even. 'Had to look af­ter my­self af­ter all, didn't I?'

'He was so an­gry,' said Hermione, in an al­most awestruck voice. 'Dum­ble­dore. We saw him. When he found out Mundun­gus had left be­fore his shift had end­ed. He was scary.'

'Well, I'm glad he left,' Har­ry said cold­ly. 'If he hadn't, I wouldn't have done mag­ic and Dum­ble­dore would prob­ably have left me at Priv­et Drive all sum­mer.'

'Aren't you… aren't you wor­ried about the Min­istry of Mag­ic hear­ing?' said Hermione qui­et­ly.

'No,' Har­ry lied de­fi­ant­ly. He walked away from them, look­ing around, with Hed­wig nes­tled con­tent­ed­ly on his shoul­der, but this room was not like­ly to raise his spir­its. It was dank and dark. A blank stretch of can­vas in an or­nate pic­ture frame was all that re­lieved the bare­ness of the peel­ing walls, and as Har­ry passed it he thought he heard some­one, who was lurk­ing out of sight, snig­ger.

'So why's Dum­ble­dore been so keen to keep me in the dark?'

Har­ry asked, still try­ing hard to keep his voice ca­su­al. 'Did you -er - both­er to ask him at all?'

He glanced up just in time to see them ex­chang­ing a look that told him he was be­hav­ing just as they had feared he would. It did noth­ing to im­prove his tem­per.

'We told Dum­ble­dore we want­ed to tell you what was go­ing on,' said Ron. 'We did, mate. But he's re­al­ly busy now, we've on­ly seen him twice since we came here and he didn't have much time, he just made us swear not to tell you im­por­tant stuff when we wrote, he said the owls might be in­ter­cept­ed.'

'He could still've kept me in­formed if he'd want­ed to,' Har­ry said short­ly. 'You're not telling me he doesn't know ways to send mes­sages with­out owls.'

Hermione glanced at Ron and then said, '1 thought that, too. But he didn't want you to know any­thing.'

'Maybe he thinks I can't be trust­ed,' said Har­ry, watch­ing their ex­pres­sions.

'Don't be thick,' said Ron, look­ing high­ly dis­con­cert­ed.

'Or that I can't take care of my­self.'

'Of course he doesn't think that!' said Hermione anx­ious­ly.

'So how come I have to stay at the Durs­leys' while you two get to join in ev­ery­thing that's go­ing on here?' said Har­ry, the words tum­bling over one an­oth­er in a rush, his voice grow­ing loud­er with ev­ery word. 'How come you two are al­lowed to know ev­ery­thing that's go­ing on?'

'We're not!' Ron in­ter­rupt­ed. 'Mum won't let us near the meet­ings, she says we're too young -'

But be­fore he knew it, Har­ry was shout­ing.

'SO YOU HAVEN'T BEEN IN THE MEET­INGS, BIG DEAL! YOU'VE STILL BEEN HERE, HAVEN'T YOU? YOU'VE STILL BEEN TO­GETH­ER! ME, I'VE BEEN STUCK AT THE DURS­LEYS' FOR A MONTH! AND I'VE HAN­DLED MORE THAN YOU TWO'VE EV­ER MAN­AGED AND DUM­BLE­DORE KNOWS IT -WHO SAVED THE PHILOSO­PHER'S STONE? WHO GOT RID OF RID­DLE? WHO SAVED BOTH YOUR SKINS FROM THE DE­MEN­TORS?'

Ev­ery bit­ter and re­sent­ful thought Har­ry had had in the past month was pour­ing out of him: his frus­tra­tion at the lack of news, the hurt that they had all been to­geth­er with­out him, his fury at be­ing fol­lowed and not told about it - all the feel­ings he was half-​ashamed of fi­nal­ly burst their bound­aries. Hed­wig took fright at the noise and soared off to the top of the wardrobe again; Pig­wid­geon twit­tered in alarm and zoomed even taster around their heads.

'WHO HAD TO GET PAST DRAG­ONS AND SPHINX­ES AND EV­ERY OTH­ER FOUL THING LAST YEAR? WHO SAW HIM COME BACK? WHO HAD TO ES­CAPE FROM HIM? ME!'

Ron was stand­ing there with his mouth half-​open, clear­ly stunned and at a loss for any­thing to say, whilst Hermione looked on the verge of tears.

'BUT WHY SHOULD I KNOW WHAT'S GO­ING ON? WHY SHOULD ANY­ONE BOTH­ER TO TELL ME WHAT'S BEEN HAP­PEN­ING?'

'Har­ry, we want­ed to tell you, we re­al­ly did -' Hermione be­gan.

'CANT'VE WANT­ED TO THAT MUCH, CAN YOU, OR YOU'D HAVE SENT ME AN OWL, BUT Dl/MBLE­DORE MADE YOU SWEAR -

Well, he did -'

'FOUR WEEKS I'VE BEEN STUCK IN PRIV­ET DRIVE, NICK­ING PA­PERS OUT OF BINS TO TRY AND FIND OUT WHAT'S BEEN GO­ING ON -'

We want­ed to -'

'I SUP­POSE YOU'VE BEEN HAV­ING A RE­AL LAUGH, HAVEN'T YOU, ALL HOLED UP HERE TO­GETH­ER -'

'No, hon­est -'

'Har­ry we're re­al­ly sor­ry!' said Hermione des­per­ate­ly, her eyes now sparkling with tears. 'You're ab­so­lute­ly right, Har­ry - I'd be fu­ri­ous if it was me!'

Har­ry glared at her, still breath­ing deeply, then turned away from them again, pac­ing up and down. Hed­wig hoot­ed glum­ly from the top of the wardrobe. There was a long pause, bro­ken on­ly by the mourn­ful creak of the floor­boards be­low Har­ry's feet.

'What is this place, any­way?' he shot at Ron and Hermione.

'Head­quar­ters of the Or­der of the Phoenix,' said Ron at once.

'Is any­one go­ing to both­er telling me what the Or­der of the Phoenix -?'

'It's a se­cret so­ci­ety,' said Hermione quick­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore's in charge, he found­ed it. It's the peo­ple who fought against You-​Know-​Who last time.'

'Who's in it?' said Har­ry, com­ing to a halt with his hands in his pock­ets.

'Quite a few peo­ple -'

'We've met about twen­ty of them,' said Ron, 'but we think there are more.'

Har­ry glared at them.

'Well?' he de­mand­ed, look­ing from one to the oth­er.

'Er,' said Ron. 'Well what?'

'Volde­mort!' said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly, and both Ron and Hermione winced. 'What's hap­pen­ing? What's he up to? Where is he? What are we do­ing to stop him?'

'We've told you, the Or­der don't let us in on their meet­ings,' said Hermione ner­vous­ly. 'So we don't know the de­tails - but we've got a gen­er­al idea,' she added hasti­ly, see­ing the look on Har­ry's face.

'Fred and George have in­vent­ed Ex­tend­able Ears, see,' said Ron. They're re­al­ly use­ful.'

'Ex­tend­able -?'

'Ears, yeah. On­ly we've had to stop us­ing them late­ly be­cause Mum found out and went berserk. Fred and George had to hide them all to stop Mum bin­ning them. But we got a good bit of use out of them be­fore Mum re­alised what was go­ing on. We know some of the Or­der are fol­low­ing known Death Eaters, keep­ing tabs on them, you know -'

'Some of them are work­ing on re­cruit­ing more peo­ple to the Or­der -' said Hermione.

'And some of them are stand­ing guard over some­thing,' said Ron. They're al­ways talk­ing about guard du­ty.'

'Couldn't have been me, could it?' said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly.

'Oh, yeah,' said Ron, with a look of dawn­ing com­pre­hen­sion.

Har­ry snort­ed. He walked around the room again, look­ing any­where but at Ron and Hermione. 'So, what have you two been do­ing, if you're not al­lowed in meet­ings?' he de­mand­ed. 'You said you'd been busy.'

'We have,' said Hermione quick­ly. 'We've been de­con­tam­inat­ing this house, it's been emp­ty for ages and stuff's been breed­ing in here. We've man­aged to clean out the kitchen, most of the bed­rooms and I think we're do­ing the draw­ing room to­mo— AARGH!'

With two loud cracks, Fred and George, Ron's el­der twin broth­ers, had ma­te­ri­alised out of thin air in the mid­dle of the room. Pig­wid­geon twit­tered more wild­ly than ev­er and zoomed off to join Hed­wig on top of the wardrobe.

'Stop do­ing that!' Hermione said weak­ly to the twins, who were as vivid­ly red-​haired as Ron, though stock­ier and slight­ly short­er.

'Hel­lo, Har­ry,' said George, beam­ing at him. 'We thought we heard your dul­cet tones.'

'You don't want to bot­tle up your anger like that, Har­ry, let it all out,' said Fred, al­so beam­ing. There might be a cou­ple of peo­ple fifty miles away who didn't hear you.'

'You two passed your Ap­pa­ra­tion tests, then?' asked Har­ry grumpi­ly.

'With dis­tinc­tion,' said Fred, who was hold­ing what looked like a piece of very long, flesh-​coloured string.

'It would have tak­en you about thir­ty sec­onds longer to walk down the stairs,' said Ron.

Time is Galleons, lit­tle broth­er,' said Fred. 'Any­way, Har­ry, you're in­ter­fer­ing with re­cep­tion. Ex­tend­able Ears,' he added in re­sponse" to Har­ry's raised eye­brows, and held up the string which Har­ry now saw was trail­ing out on to the land­ing. We're try­ing to hear what's go­ing on down­stairs.'

'You want to be care­ful,' said Ron, star­ing at the Ear, 'if Mum sees one of them again…"

'It's worth the risk, that's a ma­jor meet­ing they're hav­ing,' said Fred.

The door opened and a long mane of red hair ap­peared.

'Oh, hel­lo, Har­ry!' said Ron's younger sis­ter, Gin­ny, bright­ly. 'I thought I heard your voice.'

Turn­ing to Fred and George, she said, 'It's no-​go with the Ex­tend­able Ears, she's gone and put an Im­per­turbable Charm on the kitchen door.'

'How d'you know?' said George, look­ing crest­fall­en.

Tonks told me how to find out,' said Gin­ny. 'You just chuck stuff at the door and if it can't make con­tact the door's been Im­per­turbed. I've been flick­ing Dung­bombs at it from the top of the stairs and they just soar away from it, so there's no way the Ex­tend­able Ears will be able to get un­der the gap.'

Fred heaved a deep sigh.

'Shame. I re­al­ly fan­cied find­ing out what old Snape's been up to.'

'Snape!' said Har­ry quick­ly. 'Is he here?'

'Yeah,' said George, care­ful­ly clos­ing the door and sit­ting down on one of the beds; Fred and Gin­ny fol­lowed. 'Giv­ing a re­port. Top se­cret.'

'Git,' said Fred idly.

'He's on our side now,' said Hermione re­prov­ing­ly.

Ron snort­ed. 'Doesn't stop him be­ing a git. The way he looks at us when he sees us.'

'Bill doesn't like him, ei­ther,' said Gin­ny, as though that set­tled the mat­ter.

Har­ry was not sure his anger had abat­ed yet; but his thirst for in­for­ma­tion was now over­com­ing his urge to keep shout­ing. He sank on to the bed op­po­site the oth­ers.

'Is Bill here?' he asked. 'I thought he was work­ing in Egypt?'

'He ap­plied for a desk job so he could come home and work for the Or­der,' said Fred. 'He says he miss­es the tombs, but; he smirked, 'there are com­pen­sa­tions.'

'What d'you mean?'

'Re­mem­ber old Fleur Dela­cour?' said George. 'She's got a job at Gringotts to eem­pwve 'er Eeenglish -'

'And Bill's been giv­ing her a lot of pri­vate lessons,' snig­gered Fred.

'Char­lie's in the Or­der, too,' said George, 'but he's still in Ro­ma­nia. Dum­ble­dore wants as many for­eign wiz­ards brought in as pos­si­ble, so Char­lie's try­ing to make con­tacts on his days off.'

'Couldn't Per­cy do that?' Har­ry asked. The last he had heard, the third Weasley broth­er was work­ing in the De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co-​op­er­ation at the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

At Har­ry's words, all the Weasleys and Hermione ex­changed dark­ly sig­nif­icant looks.

'What­ev­er you do, don't men­tion Per­cy in front of Mum and Dad,' Ron told Har­ry in a tense voice.

'Why not?'

'Be­cause ev­ery time Per­cy's name's men­tioned, Dad breaks what­ev­er he's hold­ing and Mum starts cry­ing,' Fred said.

'It's been aw­ful,' said Gin­ny sad­ly.

'I think we're well shot of him,' said George, with an un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly ug­ly look on his face.

'What's hap­pened?' Har­ry said.

'Per­cy and Dad had a row,' said Fred. 'I've nev­er seen Dad row with any­one like that. It's nor­mal­ly Mum who shouts.'

'It was the first week back af­ter term end­ed,' said Ron. 'We were about to come and join the Or­der. Per­cy came home and told us he'd been pro­mot­ed.'

'You're kid­ding?' said Har­ry.

Though he knew per­fect­ly well that Per­cy was high­ly am­bi­tious, Har­ry's im­pres­sion was that Per­cy had not made a great suc­cess of his first job at the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Per­cy had com­mit­ted the fair­ly large over­sight of fail­ing to no­tice that his boss was be­ing con­trolled by Lord Volde­mort (not that the Min­istry had be­lieved it - they all thought Mr Crouch had gone mad).

'Yeah, we were all sur­prised,' said George, 'be­cause Per­cy got in­to a load of trou­ble about Crouch, there was an in­quiry and ev­ery­thing. They said Per­cy ought to have re­alised Crouch was off his rock­er and in­formed a su­pe­ri­or. But you know Per­cy, Crouch left him in charge, he wasn't go­ing to com­plain.'

'So how come they pro­mot­ed him?'

That's ex­act­ly what we won­dered,' said Ron, who seemed very keen to keep nor­mal con­ver­sa­tion go­ing now that Har­ry had stopped yelling. 'He came home re­al­ly pleased with him­self -even more pleased than usu­al, if you can imag­ine that — and told Dad he'd been of­fered a po­si­tion in Fudge's own of­fice. A re­al­ly good one for some­one on­ly a year out of Hog­warts: Ju­nior As­sis­tant to the Min­is­ter. He ex­pect­ed Dad to be all im­pressed, I think.'

'On­ly Dad wasn't,' said Fred grim­ly.

'Why not?' said Har­ry. .f-

'Well, ap­par­ent­ly Fudge has been storm­ing round the Min­istry check­ing that no­body's hav­ing any con­tact with Dum­ble­dore,' said George.

'Dum­ble­dore's name is mud with the Min­istry these days, see,' said Fred. They all think he's just mak­ing trou­ble say­ing You-​Know-​Whos back.'

'Dad says Fudge has made it clear that any­one who's in league with Dum­ble­dore can clear out their desks,' said George.

'Trou­ble is, Fudge sus­pects Dad, he knows he's friend­ly with Dum­ble­dore, and he's al­ways thought Dad's a bit of a weirdo be­cause of his Mug­gle ob­ses­sion.'

'But what's that got to do with Per­cy?' asked Har­ry, con­tused.

'I'm com­ing to that. Dad reck­ons Fudge on­ly wants Per­cy in his of­fice be­cause he wants to use him to spy on the fam­ily - and Dum­ble­dore.'

Har­ry let out a low whis­tle.

'Bet Per­cy loved that.'

Ron laughed in a hol­low sort of way.

'He went com­plete­ly berserk. He said — well, he said loads of ter­ri­ble stuff. He said he's been hav­ing to strug­gle against Dad's lousy rep­uta­tion ev­er since he joined the Min­istry and that Dad's got no am­bi­tion and that's why we've al­ways been - you know -not had a lot of mon­ey, I mean -'

'What?' said Har­ry in dis­be­lief, as Gin­ny made a noise like an an­gry cat.

'I know,' said Ron in a low voice. 'And it got worse. He said Dad was an id­iot to run around with Dum­ble­dore, that Dum­ble­dore was head­ing for big trou­ble and Dad was go­ing to go down with him, and that he - Per­cy - knew where his loy­al­ty lay and it was with the Min­istry. And if Mum and Dad were go­ing to be­come traitors to the Min­istry he was go­ing to make sure ev­ery­one knew he didn't be­long to our fam­ily any more. And he packed his bags the same night and left. He's liv­ing here in Lon­don now.'

Har­ry swore un­der his breath. He had al­ways liked Per­cy least of Ron's broth­ers, but he had nev­er imag­ined he would say such things to Mr Weasley.

'Mum's been in a right state,' said Ron dul­ly. 'You know - cry­ing and stuff. She came up to Lon­don to try and talk to Per­cy but he slammed the door in her face. I dun­no what he does if he meets Dad at work - ig­nores him, I's'pose.'

'But Per­cy must know Volde­mort's back,' said Har­ry slow­ly. 'He's not stupid, he must know your mum and dad wouldn't risk ev­ery­thing with­out proof.'

'Yeah, well, your name got dragged in­to the row,' said Ron, shoot­ing Har­ry a furtive look. 'Per­cy said the on­ly ev­idence was your word and… I dun­no… he didn't think it was good enough.'

'Per­cy takes the Dai­ly Prophet se­ri­ous­ly,' said Hermione tart­ly, and the oth­ers all nod­ded.

'What are you talk­ing about?' Har­ry asked, look­ing around at them all. They were all re­gard­ing him war­ily.

'Haven't - haven't you been get­ting the Dai­ly Prophet!' Hermione asked ner­vous­ly.

'Yeah, I have!' said Har­ry.

'Have you - er - been read­ing it thor­ough­ly?' Hermione asked, still more anx­ious­ly.

'Not cov­er to cov­er,' said Har­ry de­fen­sive­ly. 'If they were go­ing to re­port any­thing about Volde­mort it would be head­line news, wouldn't it?'

The oth­ers flinched at the sound of the name. Hermione hur­ried on, 'Well, you'd need to read it cov­er to cov­er to pick it up, but they - um - they men­tion you a cou­ple of times a week.'

'But I'd have seen -'

'Not if you've on­ly been read­ing the front page, you wouldn't,' said Hermione, shak­ing her head. 'I'm not talk­ing about big ar­ti­cles. They just slip you in, like you're a stand­ing joke.'

'What d'you -?'

'It's quite nasty, ac­tu­al­ly,' said Hermione in a voice of forced calm. They're just build­ing on Ri­ta's stuff.'

'But she's not writ­ing for them any more, is she?'

'Oh, no, she's kept her promise — not that she's got any choice,' Hermione added with sat­is­fac­tion. 'But she laid the foun­da­tion for what they're try­ing to do now.'

'Which is what?' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly.

'OK, you know she wrote that you were col­laps­ing all over the place and say­ing your scar was hurt­ing and all that?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, who was not like­ly to for­get Ri­ta Skeeter's sto­ries about him in a hur­ry.

'Well, they're writ­ing about you as though you're this de­lud­ed, at­ten­tion-​seek­ing per­son who thinks he's a great trag­ic hero or some­thing,' said Hermione, very fast, as though it would be less un­pleas­ant for Har­ry to hear these facts quick­ly. They keep slip­ping in snide com­ments about you. If some far-​fetched sto­ry ap­pears, they say some­thing like, “A tale wor­thy of Har­ry Pot­ter”, and if any­one has a fun­ny ac­ci­dent or any­thing it's, “Let's hope he hasn't got a scar on his fore­head or we'll be asked to wor­ship him next” -'

'I don't want any­one to wor­ship —' Har­ry be­gan hot­ly.

'I know you don't,' said Hermione quick­ly, look­ing fright­ened. 'I know, Har­ry. But you see what they're do­ing? They want to turn you in­to some­one no­body will be­lieve. Fudge is be­hind it, I'll bet any­thing. They want wiz­ards on the street to think you're just some stupid boy who's a bit of a joke, who tells ridicu­lous tall sto­ries be­cause he loves be­ing fa­mous and wants to keep it go­ing.'

'I didn't ask - I didn't want - Volde­mort killed my par­ents!' Har­ry splut­tered. 'I got fa­mous be­cause he mur­dered my fam­ily but couldn't kill me! Who wants to be fa­mous for that? Don't they think I'd rather it'd nev­er -'

'We know, Har­ry,' said Gin­ny earnest­ly.

'And of course, they didn't re­port a word about the De­men­tors at­tack­ing you,' said Hermione. 'Some­one's told them to keep that qui­et. That should've been a re­al­ly big sto­ry, out-​of-​con­trol De­men­tors. They haven't even re­port­ed that you broke the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy. We thought they would, it would tie in so well with this im­age of you as some stupid show-​off. We think they're bid­ing their time un­til you're ex­pelled, then they're re­al­ly go­ing to go to town - I mean, if you're ex­pelled, ob­vi­ous­ly,' she went on hasti­ly. 'You re­al­ly shouldn't be, not if they abide by their own laws, there's no case against you.'

They were back on the hear­ing and Har­ry did not want to think about that. He cast around for an­oth­er change of sub­ject, but was saved the ne­ces­si­ty of find­ing one by the sound of foot­steps com­ing up the stairs.

'Uh oh.'

Fred gave the Ex­tend­able Ear a hearty tug; there was an­oth­er loud crack and he and George van­ished. Sec­onds lat­er, Mrs. Weasley ap­peared in the bed­room door­way.

The meet­ing's over, you can come down and have din­ner now. Ev­ery­one's dy­ing to see you, Har­ry. And who's left all those Dung­bombs out­side the kitchen door?'

'Crook­shanks,' said Gin­ny un­blush­mg­ly. 'He loves play­ing with them.'

'Oh,' said Mrs. Weasley, 'I thought it might have been Kreach­er, he keeps do­ing odd things like that. Now don't for­get to keep your voic­es down in the hall. Gin­ny, your hands are filthy, what have you been do­ing? Go and wash them be­fore din­ner, please.'

Gin­ny gri­maced at the oth­ers and fol­lowed her moth­er out of the room, leav­ing Har­ry alone with Ron and Hermione. Both of them were watch­ing him ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, as though they feared he would start shout­ing again now that ev­ery­one else had gone. The sight of them look­ing so ner­vous made him feel slight­ly ashamed.

'Look…' he mut­tered, but Ron shook his head, and Hermione said qui­et­ly, 'We knew you'd be an­gry, Har­ry, we re­al­ly don't blame you, but you've got to un­der­stand, we did try to per­suade Dum­ble­dore -'

'Yeah, I know,' said Har­ry short­ly.

He cast around for a top­ic that didn't in­volve his head­mas­ter, be­cause the very thought of Dum­ble­dore made Har­ry's in­sides burn with anger again.

'Who's Kreach­er?' he asked.

The house-​elf who lives here,' said Ron. 'Nut­ter. Nev­er met one like him.'

Hermione frowned at Ron.

'He's not a nut­ter, Ron.'

'His life's am­bi­tion is to have his head cut off and stuck up on a plaque just like his moth­er,' said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly. 'Is that nor­mal, Hermione?'

'Well - well, if he is a bit strange, it's not his fault.'

Ron rolled his eyes at Har­ry.

'Hermione still hasn't giv­en up on SPEW

'It's not SPEW!' said Hermione heat­ed­ly. 'It's the So­ci­ety for the Pro­mo­tion of Elfish Wel­fare. And it's not just me, Dum­ble­dore says we should be kind to Kreach­er too.'

'Yeah, yeah,' said Ron. 'C'mon, I'm starv­ing.'

He led the way out of the door and on to the land­ing, but be­fore they could de­scend the stairs -

'Hold it!' Ron breathed, fling­ing out an arm to stop Har­ry and Hermione walk­ing any fur­ther. They're still in the hall, we might be able to hear some­thing.'

The three of them looked cau­tious­ly over the ban­is­ters. The gloomy hall­way be­low was packed with witch­es and wiz­ards, in­clud­ing all of Har­rys guard. They were whis­per­ing ex­cit­ed­ly to­geth­er. In the very cen­tre of the group Har­ry saw the dark, greasy-​haired head and promi­nent nose of his least favourite teach­er at Hog­warts, Pro­fes­sor Snape. Har­ry leant fur­ther over the ban­is­ters. He was very in­ter­est­ed in what Snape was do­ing for the Or­der of the Phoenix…

A thin piece of flesh-​coloured string de­scend­ed in front of Har­rys eyes. Look­ing up, he saw Ered and George on the land­ing above, cau­tious­ly low­er­ing the Ex­tend­able Ear to­wards the dark knot of peo­ple be­low. A mo­ment lat­er, how­ev­er, they all be­gan to move to­wards the front door and out of sight.

'Dammit,' Har­ry heard Fred whis­per, as he hoist­ed the Ex­tend­able Ear back up again.

They heard the front door open, then close.

'Snape nev­er eats here,' Ron told Har­ry qui­et­ly. Thank God. C'mon.'

'And don't for­get to keep your voice down in the hall, Har­ry,' Hermione whis­pered.

As they passed the row of house-​elf heads on the wall, they saw Lupin, Mrs. Weasley and Tonks at the front door, mag­ical­ly seal­ing its many locks and bolts be­hind those who had just left.

'We're eat­ing down in the kitchen,' Mrs. Weasley whis­pered, meet­ing them at the bot­tom of the stairs. 'Har­ry, dear, if you'll just tip­toe across the hall it's through this door here -'

CRASH.

'Tonks!' cried Mrs. Weasley in ex­as­per­ation, turn­ing to look be­hind her.

'I'm sor­ry!' wailed Tonks, who was ly­ing flat on the floor. 'It's that stupid um­brel­la stand, that's the sec­ond time I've tripped over -'

But the rest of her words were drowned by a hor­ri­ble, ear-​split­ting, blood-​cur­dling screech.

The moth-​eat­en vel­vet cur­tains Har­ry had passed ear­li­er had flown apart, but there was no door be­hind them. For a split sec­ond, Har­ry thought he was look­ing through a win­dow, a win­dow be­hind which an old wom­an in a black cap was scream­ing and scream­ing as though she were be­ing tor­tured - then he re­alised it was sim­ply a life-​size por­trait, but the most re­al­is­tic, and the most un­pleas­ant, he had ev­er seen in his life.

The old wom­an was drool­ing, her eyes were rolling, the yel­low­ing skin of her face stretched taut as she screamed; and all along the hall be­hind them, the oth­er por­traits awoke and be­gan to yell, too, so that Har­ry ac­tu­al­ly screwed up his eyes at the noise and clapped his hands over his ears.

Lupin and Mrs. Weasley dart­ed for­ward and tried to tug the cur­tains shut over the old wom­an, but they would not close and she screeched loud­er than ev­er, bran­dish­ing clawed hands as though try­ing to tear at their faces.

'Filth! Scum! By-​prod­ucts of dirt and vile­ness! Half-​breeds, mu­tants, freaks, be­gone from this place! How dare you be­foul the house of my fa­thers -'

Tonks apol­ogised over and over again, drag­ging the huge, heavy troll's leg back off the floor; Mrs. Weasley aban­doned the at­tempt to close the cur­tains and hur­ried up and down the hall, Stun­ning all the oth­er por­traits with her wand; and a man with long black hair came charg­ing out of a door fac­ing Har­ry.

'Shut up, you hor­ri­ble old hag, shut UP!' he roared, seiz­ing the cur­tain Mrs. Weasley had aban­doned.

The old wom­an's face blanched.

'Yoooou!' she howled, her eyes pop­ping at the sight of the man. 'Blood traitor, abom­ina­tion, shame of my flesh!'

'I said - shut - UP!' roared the man, and with a stu­pen­dous ef­fort he and Lupin man­aged to force the cur­tains closed again.

The old wom­an's screech­es died and an echo­ing si­lence fell. Pant­ing slight­ly and sweep­ing his long dark hair out of his eyes, Har­ry's god­fa­ther Sir­ius turned to face him.

'Hel­lo, Har­ry,' he said grim­ly, 'I see you've met my moth­er.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 5 - The Order of the...


'Your -?'

'My dear old mum, yeah,' said Sir­ius. 'We've been try­ing to get her down for a month but we think she put a Per­ma­nent Stick­ing Charm on the back of the can­vas. Let's get down­stairs, quick, be­fore they all wake up again.'

'But what's a por­trait of your moth­er do­ing here?' Har­ry asked, be­wil­dered, as they went through the door from the hall and led the way down a flight of nar­row stone steps, the oth­ers just be­hind them.

'Hasn't any­one told you? This was my par­ents' house,' said Sir­ius. 'But I'm the last Black left, so it's mine now. I of­fered it to Dum­ble­dore for Head­quar­ters - about the on­ly use­ful thing I've been able to do.'

Har­ry, who had ex­pect­ed a bet­ter wel­come, not­ed how hard and bit­ter Sir­ius's voice sound­ed. He fol­lowed his god­fa­ther to the bot­tom of the steps and through a door lead­ing in­to the base­ment kitchen.

It was scarce­ly less gloomy than the hall above, a cav­ernous room with rough stone walls. Most of the light was com­ing from a large fire at the far end of the room. A haze of pipe smoke hung in the air like bat­tle fumes, through which loomed the men­ac­ing shapes of heavy iron pots and pans hang­ing from the dark ceil­ing. Many chairs had been crammed in­to the room for the meet­ing and a long wood­en ta­ble stood in the mid­dle of them, lit­tered with rolls of parch­ment, gob­lets, emp­ty wine bot­tles, and a heap of what ap­peared to be rags. Mr Weasley and his el­dest son Bill were talk­ing qui­et­ly with their heads to­geth­er at the end of the ta­ble.

Mrs. Weasley cleared her throat. Her hus­band, a thin, bald­ing, red-​haired man who wore horn-​rimmed glass­es, looked around and jumped to his feet.

'Har­ry!' Mr Weasley said, hur­ry­ing for­ward to greet him, and shak­ing his hand vig­or­ous­ly. 'Good to see you!'

Over his shoul­der Har­ry saw Bill, who still wore his long hair in a pony­tail, hasti­ly rolling up the lengths of parch­ment left on the ta­ble.

'Jour­ney all right, Har­ry?' Bill called, try­ing to gath­er up twelve scrolls at once. 'Mad-​Eye didn't make you come via Green­land, then?'

'He tried,' said Tonks, strid­ing over to help Bill and im­me­di­ate­ly top­pling a can­dle on to the last piece of parch­ment. 'Oh no - sor­ry -

'Here, dear,' said Mrs. Weasley, sound­ing ex­as­per­at­ed, and she re­paired the parch­ment with a wave of her wand. In the flash of light caused by Mrs. Weasley's charm Har­ry caught a glimpse of what looked like the plan of a build­ing.

Mrs. Weasley had seen him look­ing. She snatched the plan off the ta­ble and stuffed it in­to Bill's al­ready over­laden arms.

'This sort of thing ought to be cleared away prompt­ly at the end of meet­ings,' she snapped, be­fore sweep­ing off to­wards an an­cient dress­er from which she start­ed un­load­ing din­ner plates.

Bill took out his wand, mut­tered, 'Evanesco!' and the scrolls van­ished.

'Sit down, Har­ry,' said Sir­ius. 'You've met Mundun­gus, haven't you?'

The thing Har­ry had tak­en to be a pile of rags gave a pro­longed, grunt­ing snore, then jerked awake.

'Some'n say m'name?' Mundun­gus mum­bled sleep­ily. 'I 'gree with Sir­ius…' He raised a very grub­by hand in the air as though vot­ing, his droopy, blood­shot eyes un­fo­cused.

Gin­ny gig­gled.

'The meet­ing's over, Dung,' said Sir­ius, as they all sat down around him at the ta­ble. 'Har­ry's ar­rived.'

'Eh?' said Mundun­gus, peer­ing bale­ful­ly at Har­ry through his mat­ted gin­ger hair. 'Blimey, so 'e 'as. Yeah… you all right, 'Any?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry.

Mundun­gus fum­bled ner­vous­ly in his pock­ets, still star­ing at Har­ry, and pulled out a grimy black pipe. He stuck it in his mouth, ig­nit­ed the end of it with his wand and took a deep pull on it. Great bil­low­ing clouds of green­ish smoke ob­scured him with­in sec­onds.

'Owe you a 'pol­ogy,' grunt­ed a voice from the mid­dle of the smelly cloud.

'For the last time, Mundun­gus,' called Mrs. Weasley, 'will you please not smoke that thing in the kitchen, es­pe­cial­ly not when we're about to eat!'

'Ah,' said Mundun­gus. 'Right. Sor­ry, Mol­ly.'

The cloud of smoke van­ished as Mundun­gus stowed his pipe back in his pock­et, but an acrid smell of burn­ing socks lin­gered.

'And if you want din­ner be­fore mid­night I'll need a hand,' Mrs. Weasley said to the room at large. 'No, you can stay where you are, Har­ry dear, you've had a long jour­ney.'

'What can I do, Mol­ly?' said Tonks en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, bound­ing for­wards.

Mrs. Weasley hes­itat­ed, look­ing ap­pre­hen­sive.

'Er - no, it's all right, Tonks, you have a rest too, you've done enough to­day.'

'No, no, I want to help!' said Tonks bright­ly, knock­ing over a chair as she hur­ried to­wards the dress­er, from which Gin­ny was col­lect­ing cut­lery.

Soon, a se­ries of heavy knives were chop­ping meat and veg­eta­bles of their own ac­cord, su­per­vised by Mr Weasley, while Mrs. Weasley stirred a caul­dron dan­gling over the fire and the oth­ers took out plates, more gob­lets and food from the pantry. Har­ry was left at the ta­ble with Sir­ius and Mundun­gus, who was still blink­ing at him mourn­ful­ly.

'Seen old Fig­gy since?' he asked.

'No,' said Har­ry, 'I haven't seen any­one.'

'See, I wouldn't 'ave left,' said Mundun­gus, lean­ing for­ward, a plead­ing note in his voice, 'but I 'ad a busi­ness op­por­tu­ni­ty -'

Har­ry felt some­thing brush against his knees and start­ed, but it was on­ly Crook­shanks, Hermione's bandy-​legged gin­ger cat, who wound him­self once around Har­ry's legs, purring, then jumped on to Sir­ius's lap and curled up. Sir­ius scratched him ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly be­hind the ears as he turned, still grim-​faced, to Har­ry.

'Had a good sum­mer so far?'

'No, it's been lousy,' said Har­ry.

For the first time, some­thing like a grin flit­ted across Sir­ius's face.

'Don't know what you're com­plain­ing about, my­self.'

'What?' said Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly.

'Per­son­al­ly, I'd have wel­comed a De­men­tor at­tack. A dead­ly strug­gle for my soul would have bro­ken the monotony nice­ly. You think you've had it bad, at least you've been able to get out and about, stretch your legs, get in­to a few fights… I've been stuck in­side for a month.'

'How come?' asked Har­ry, frown­ing.

'Be­cause the Min­istry of Mag­ic's still af­ter me, and Volde­mort will know all about me be­ing an An­ima­gus by now, Worm­tail will have told him, so my big dis­guise is use­less. There's not much I can do for the Or­der of the Phoenix… or so Dum­ble­dore feels.'

There was some­thing about the slight­ly flat­tened tone of voice in which Sir­ius ut­tered Dum­ble­dore's name that told Har­ry that Sir­ius, too, was not very hap­py with the Head­mas­ter. Har­ry felt a sud­den up­surge of af­fec­tion for his god­fa­ther.

At least you've known what's been go­ing on,' he said brac­ing­ly.

'Oh yeah,' said Sir­ius sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. 'Lis­ten­ing to Snape's re­ports, hav­ing to take all his snide hints that he's out there risk­ing his life while I'm sat on my back­side here hav­ing a nice com­fort­able time… ask­ing me how the clean­ings go­ing -'

'What clean­ing?' asked Har­ry.

Try­ing to make this place fit for hu­man habi­ta­tion,' said Sir­ius, wav­ing a hand around the dis­mal kitchen. 'No one's lived here for ten years, not since my dear moth­er died, un­less you count her old house-​elf, and he's gone round the twist - hasn't cleaned any­thing in ages.'

'Sir­ius,' said Mundun­gus, who did not ap­pear to have paid any at­ten­tion to the con­ver­sa­tion, but had been close­ly ex­am­in­ing an emp­ty gob­let. 'This sol­id sil­ver, mate?'

'Yes,' said Sir­ius, sur­vey­ing it with dis­taste. 'Finest fif­teenth-​cen­tu­ry gob­lin-​wrought sil­ver, em­bossed with the Black fam­ily crest.'

That'd come orf, though,' mut­tered Mundun­gus, pol­ish­ing it with his cuff.

'Fred - George - NO, JUST CAR­RY THEM!' Mrs. Weasley shrieked.

Har­ry, Sir­ius and Mundun­gus looked round and, with­in a split sec­ond, they had dived away from the ta­ble. Fred and George had be­witched a large caul­dron of stew, an iron flagon of But­ter­beer and a heavy wood­en bread­board, com­plete with knife, to hur­tle through the air to­wards them. The stew skid­ded the length of the ta­ble and came to a halt just be­fore the end, leav­ing a long black burn on the wood­en sur­face; the flagon of But­ter­beer fell with a crash, spilling its con­tents ev­ery­where; the bread knife slipped off the board and land­ed, point down and quiv­er­ing omi­nous­ly, ex­act­ly where Sir­ius's right hand had been sec­onds be­fore.

'FOR HEAV­EN'S SAKE!' screamed Mrs. Weasley. THERE WAS NO NEED - I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS - JUST BE­CAUSE YOU'RE AL­LOWED TO USE MAG­IC NOW, YOU DON'T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR WANDS OUT FOR EV­ERY TINY LIT­TLE THING!'

'We were just try­ing to save a bit of time!' said Fred, hur­ry­ing for­ward to wrench the bread knife out of the ta­ble. 'Sor­ry, Sir­ius, mate - didn't mean to -'

Har­ry and Sir­ius were both laugh­ing; Mundun­gus, who had top­pled back­wards off his chair, was swear­ing as he got to his feet; Crook­shanks had giv­en an an­gry hiss and shot off un­der the dress­er, from where his large yel­low eyes glowed in the dark­ness.

'Boys,' Mr Weasley said, lift­ing the stew back in­to the mid­dle of the ta­ble, 'your moth­er's right, you're sup­posed to show a sense of re­spon­si­bil­ity now you've come of age -'

'None of your broth­ers caused this sort of trou­ble!' Mrs. Weasley raged at the twins as she slammed a fresh flagon of But­ter­beer on to the ta­ble, and spilling al­most as much again. 'Bill didn't feel the need to Ap­pa­rate ev­ery few feet! Char­lie didn't charm ev­ery­thing he met! Per­cy -'

She stopped dead, catch­ing her breath with a fright­ened look at her hus­band, whose ex­pres­sion was sud­den­ly wood­en.

'Let's eat,' said Bill quick­ly.

'It looks won­der­ful, Mol­ly,' said Lupin, ladling stew on to a plate for her and hand­ing it across the ta­ble.

For a few min­utes there was si­lence but for the chink of plates and cut­lery and the scrap­ing of chairs as ev­ery­one set­tled down to their food. Then Mrs. Weasley turned to Sir­ius.

'I've been mean­ing to tell you, Sir­ius, there's some­thing trapped in that writ­ing desk in the draw­ing room, it keeps rat­tling and shak­ing. Of course, it could just be a Bog­gart, but I thought we ought to ask Alas­tor to have a look at it be­fore we let it out.'

'What­ev­er you like,' said Sir­ius in­dif­fer­ent­ly.

'The cur­tains in there are full of Doxys, too,' Mrs. Weasley went on. 'I thought we might try and tack­le them to­mor­row.'

'I look for­ward to it,' said Sir­ius. Har­ry heard the sar­casm in his voice, but he was not sure that any­one else did.

Op­po­site Har­ry, Tonks was en­ter­tain­ing Hermione and Gin­ny by trans­form­ing her nose be­tween mouth­fuls. Screw­ing up her eyes each time with the same pained ex­pres­sion she had worn back in Har­ry's bed­room, her nose swelled to a beak-​like pro­tu­ber­ance that re­sem­bled Snape's, shrank to the size of a but­ton mush­room and then sprout­ed a great deal of hair from each nos­tril. Ap­par­ent­ly this was a reg­ular meal­time en­ter­tain­ment, be­cause Hermione and Gin­ny were soon re­quest­ing their favourite noses.

'Do that one like a pig snout, Tonks.'

Tonks obliged, and Har­ry, look­ing up, had the fleet­ing im­pres­sion that a fe­male Dud­ley was grin­ning at him from across the ta­ble.

Mr Weasley, Bill and Lupin were hav­ing an in­tense dis­cus­sion about gob­lins.

They're not giv­ing any­thing away yet,' said Bill. 'I still can't work out whether or not they be­lieve he's back. Course, they might pre­fer not to take sides at all. Keep out of it.'

'I'm sure they'd nev­er go over to You-​Know-​Who,' said Mr Weasley, shak­ing his head. They've suf­fered loss­es too; re­mem­ber that gob­lin fam­ily he mur­dered last time, some­where near Not­ting­ham?'

'I think it de­pends what they're of­fered,' said Lupin. 'And I'm not talk­ing about gold. If they're of­fered the free­doms we've been deny­ing them for cen­turies they're go­ing to be tempt­ed. Have you still not had any luck with Rag­nok, Bill?'

'He's feel­ing pret­ty an­ti-​wiz­ard at the mo­ment,' said Bill, 'he hasn't stopped rag­ing about the Bag­man busi­ness, he reck­ons the Min­istry did a cov­er-​up, those gob­lins nev­er got their gold from him, you know -'

A gale of laugh­ter from the mid­dle of the ta­ble drowned the rest of Bill's words. Fred, George, Ron and Mundun­gus were rolling around in their seats.

'… and then,' choked Mundun­gus, tears run­ning down his face, 'and then, if you'll be­lieve it, 'e says to me, 'e says, “'Ere, Dung, where did­ja get all them toads from? 'Cos some son of a Bludger's gone and nicked all mine!” And I says, “Nicked all your toads, Will, what next? So you'll be want­ing some more, then?” And if you'll be­lieve me, lads, the gorm­less gar­goyle buys all 'is own toads back orf me for a lot more'n what 'e paid in the first place -'

'1 don't think we need to hear any more of your busi­ness deal­ings, thank you very much, Mundun­gus,' said Mrs. Weasley sharply, as Ron slumped for­wards on to the ta­ble, howl­ing with laugh­ter.

'Beg par­don, Mol­ly,' said Mundun­gus at once, wip­ing his eyes and wink­ing at Har­ry. 'But, you know, Will nicked 'em orf Warty Har­ris in the first place so I wasn't re­al­ly do­ing noth­ing wrong.'

'I don't know where you learned about right and wrong, Mundun­gus, but you seem to have missed a few cru­cial lessons,' said Mrs. Weasley cold­ly.

Fred and George buried their faces in their gob­lets of But­ter­beer; George was hic­cough­ing. For some rea­son, Mrs. Weasley threw a very nasty look at Sir­ius be­fore get­ting to her feet and go­ing to fetch a large rhubarb crum­ble for pud­ding. Har­ry looked round at his god­fa­ther.

'Mol­ly doesn't ap­prove of Mundun­gus,' said Sir­ius in an un­der­tone.

'How come he's in the Or­der?' Har­ry said, very qui­et­ly.

'He's use­ful,' Sir­ius mut­tered. 'Knows all the crooks - well, he would, see­ing as he's one him­self. But he's al­so very loy­al to Dum­ble­dore, who helped him out of a tight spot once. It pays to have some­one like Dung around, he hears things we don't. But Mol­ly thinks invit­ing him to stay for din­ner is go­ing too far. She hasn't for­giv­en him for slip­ping off du­ty when he was sup­posed to be tail­ing you.'

Three help­ings of rhubarb crum­ble and cus­tard lat­er and the waist­band on Har­rys jeans was feel­ing un­com­fort­ably tight (which was say­ing some­thing as the jeans had once been Dud­ley's). As he laid down his spoon there was a lull in the gen­er­al con­ver­sa­tion: Mr Weasley was lean­ing back in his chair, look­ing re­plete and re­laxed; Tonks was yawn­ing wide­ly, her nose now back to nor­mal; and Gin­ny who had lured Crook­shanks out from un­der the dress­er, was sit­ting cross-​legged on the floor, rolling But­ter­beer corks for him to chase.

'Near­ly time for bed, I think,' said Mrs. Weasley with a yawn.

'Not just yet, Mol­ly' said Sir­ius, push­ing away his emp­ty plate and turn­ing to look at Har­ry. 'You know, I'm sur­prised at you. I thought the first thing you'd do when you got here would be to start ask­ing ques­tions about Volde­mort.'

The at­mo­sphere in the room changed with the ra­pid­ity Har­ry as­so­ci­at­ed with the ar­rival of De­men­tors. Where sec­onds be­fore it had been sleep­ily re­laxed, it was now alert, even tense. A fris­son had gone around the ta­ble at the men­tion of Volde­mort's name. Lupin, who had been about to take a sip of wine, low­ered his gob­let slow­ly, look­ing wary.

'I did!' said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly. 'I asked Ron and Hermione but they said we're not al­lowed in the Or­der, so -'

'And they're quite right,' said Mrs. Weasley. 'You're too young.'

She was sit­ting bolt up­right in her chair, her fists clenched on its arms, ev­ery trace of drowsi­ness gone.

'Since when did some­one have to be in the Or­der of the Phoenix to ask ques­tions?' asked Sir­ius. 'Har­ry's been trapped in that Mug­gle house for a month. He's got the right to know what's been hap­pen—'

'Hang on!' in­ter­rupt­ed George loud­ly.

'How come Har­ry gets his ques­tions an­swered?' said Fred an­gri­ly.

'We've been try­ing to get stuff out of you for a month and you haven't told us a sin­gle stink­ing thing!' said George.

'“You're too young, you're not in the Or­der,'” said Fred, in a high-​pitched voice that sound­ed un­can­ni­ly like his moth­er's. 'Har­ry's not even of age!'

'It's not my fault you haven't been told what the Or­der's do­ing,' said Sir­ius calm­ly, 'that's your par­ents' de­ci­sion. Har­ry, on the oth­er hand -'

'It's not down to you to de­cide what's good for Har­ry!' said Mrs. Weasley sharply. The ex­pres­sion on her nor­mal­ly kind face looked dan­ger­ous. 'You haven't for­got­ten what Dum­ble­dore said, I sup­pose?'

'Which bit?' Sir­ius asked po­lite­ly, but with the air of a man ready­ing him­self for a fight.

The bit about not telling Har­ry more than he needs to know,' said Mrs. Weasley, plac­ing a heavy em­pha­sis on the last three words.

Ron, Hermione, Fred and George's heads swiv­elled from Sir­ius to Mrs. Weasley as though they were fol­low­ing a ten­nis ral­ly. Gin­ny was kneel­ing amid a pile of aban­doned But­ter­beer corks, watch­ing the con­ver­sa­tion with her mouth slight­ly open. Lupin's eyes were fixed on Sir­ius.

'I don't in­tend to tell him more than he needs to know, Mol­ly,' said Sir­ius. 'But as he was the one who saw Volde­mort come back' (again, there was a col­lec­tive shud­der around the ta­ble at the name) 'he has more right than most to -'

'He's not a mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix!' said Mrs. Weasley. 'He's on­ly fif­teen and -'

'And he's dealt with as much as most in the Or­der,' said Sir­ius, 'and more than some.'

'No one's deny­ing what he's done!' said Mrs. Weasley, her voice ris­ing, her fists trem­bling on the arms of her chair. 'But he's still -'

'He's not a child!' said Sir­ius im­pa­tient­ly.

'He's not an adult ei­ther!' said Mrs. Weasley, the colour ris­ing in her cheeks. 'He's not James, Sir­ius!'

'I'm per­fect­ly clear who he is, thanks, Mol­ly,' said Sir­ius cold­ly.

'I'm not sure you are!' said Mrs. Weasley. 'Some­times, the way you talk about him, it's as though you think you've got your best friend back!'

'What's wrong with that?' said Har­ry.

'What's wrong, Har­ry, is that you are not your fa­ther, how­ev­er much you might look like him!' said Mrs. Weasley, her eyes still bor­ing in­to Sir­ius. 'You are still at school and adults re­spon­si­ble for you should not for­get it!'

'Mean­ing I'm an ir­re­spon­si­ble god­fa­ther?' de­mand­ed Sir­ius, his voice ris­ing.

'Mean­ing you have been known to act rash­ly, Sir­ius, which is why Dum­ble­dore keeps re­mind­ing you to stay at home and -'

'We'll leave my in­struc­tions from Dum­ble­dore out of this, if you please!' said Sir­ius loud­ly.

'Arthur!' said Mrs. Weasley, round­ing on her hus­band. 'Arthur, back me up!'

Mr Weasley did not speak at once. He took off his glass­es and cleaned them slow­ly on his robes, not look­ing at his wife. On­ly when he had re­placed them care­ful­ly on his nose did he re­ply.

'Dum­ble­dore knows the po­si­tion has changed, Mol­ly. He ac­cepts that Har­ry will have to be filled in, to a cer­tain ex­tent, now that he is stay­ing at Head­quar­ters.'

'Yes, but there's a dif­fer­ence be­tween that and invit­ing him to ask what­ev­er he likes!'

'Per­son­al­ly,' said Lupin qui­et­ly, look­ing away from Sir­ius at last, as Mrs. Weasley turned quick­ly to him, hope­ful that fi­nal­ly she was about to get an al­ly, 'I think it bet­ter that Har­ry gets the facts -not all the facts, Mol­ly, but the gen­er­al pic­ture - from us, rather than a gar­bled ver­sion from… oth­ers.'

His ex­pres­sion was mild, but Har­ry felt sure Lupin, at least, knew that some Ex­tend­able Ears had sur­vived Mrs. Weasley's purge.

'Well,' said Mrs. Weasley, breath­ing deeply and look­ing around the ta­ble for sup­port that did not come, 'well… I can see I'm go­ing to be over­ruled. I'll just say this: Dum­ble­dore must have had his rea­sons for not want­ing Har­ry to know too much, and speak­ing as some­one who has Har­ry's best in­ter­ests at heart -'

'He's not your son,' said Sir­ius qui­et­ly.

'He's as good as,' said Mrs. Weasley fierce­ly. 'Who else has he got?'

'He's got me!'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Weasley, her lip curl­ing, 'the thing is, it's been rather dif­fi­cult for you to look af­ter him while you've been locked UP in Azk­aban, hasn't it?'

Sir­ius start­ed to rise from his chair.

'Mol­ly, you're not the on­ly per­son at this ta­ble who cares about Har­ry,' said Lupin sharply. 'Sir­ius, sit down.'

Mrs. Weasley's low­er lip was trem­bling. Sir­ius sank slow­ly back in­to his chair, his face white.

'I think Har­ry ought to be al­lowed a say in this,' Lupin con­tin­ued, 'he's old enough to de­cide for him­self.'

'I want to know what's been go­ing on,' Har­ry said at once.

He did not look at Mrs. Weasley. He had been touched by what she had said about his be­ing as good as a son, but he was al­so im­pa­tient with her mol­ly­cod­dling. Sir­ius was right, he was not a child.

'Very well,' said Mrs. Weasley, her voice crack­ing. 'Gin­ny - Ron - Hermione - Fred - George - I want you out of this kitchen, now.'

There was in­stant up­roar.

'We're of age!' Fred and George bel­lowed to­geth­er.

'If Har­ry's al­lowed, why can't I?' shout­ed Ron.

'Mum, I want to hear!' wailed Gin­ny.

'NO!' shout­ed Mrs. Weasley, stand­ing up, her eyes over­bright. 'I ab­so­lute­ly for­bid -'

'Mol­ly, you can't stop Fred and George,' said Mr Weasley weari­ly. They are of age.'

They're still at school.'

'But they're legal­ly adults now,' said Mr Weasley, in the same tired voice.

Mrs. Weasley was now scar­let in the face.

'I - oh, all right then, Fred and George can stay, but Ron -'

'Har­ry'll tell me and Hermione ev­ery­thing you say any­way!' said Ron hot­ly. 'Won't - won't you?' he added un­cer­tain­ly, meet­ing Har­ry's eyes.

For a split sec­ond, Har­ry con­sid­ered telling Ron that he wouldn't tell him a sin­gle word, that he could try a taste of be­ing kept in the dark and see how he liked it. But the nasty im­pulse van­ished as they looked at each oth­er.

'Course I will,' Har­ry said.

Ron and Hermione beamed.

'Fine!' shout­ed Mrs. Weasley. 'Fine! Gin­ny - BED!'

Gin­ny did not go qui­et­ly. They could hear her rag­ing and storm­ing at her moth­er all the way up the stairs, and when she reached the hall Mrs. Blacks ear-​split­ting shrieks were added to the din. Lupin hur­ried off to the por­trait to re­store calm. It was on­ly af­ter he had re­turned, clos­ing the kitchen door be­hind him and tak­ing his seat at the ta­ble again, that Sir­ius spoke.

'OK, Har­ry… what do you want to know?'

Har­ry took a deep breath and asked the ques­tion that had ob­sessed him for the last month.

'Where's Volde­mort?' he said, ig­nor­ing the re­newed shud­ders and winces at the name. 'What's he do­ing? I've been try­ing to watch the Mug­gle news, and there hasn't been any­thing that looks like him yet, no fun­ny deaths or any­thing.'

That's be­cause there haven't been any fun­ny deaths yet,' said Sir­ius, 'not as far as we know, any­way… and we know quite a lot.'

'More than he thinks we do, any­way,' said Lupin.

'How come he's stopped killing peo­ple?' Har­ry asked. He knew Volde­mort had mur­dered more than once in the last year alone.

'Be­cause he doesn't want to draw at­ten­tion to him­self,' said Sir­ius. 'It would be dan­ger­ous for him. His come­back didn't come off quite the way he want­ed it to, you see. He messed it up.'

'Or rather, you messed it tip for him,' said Lupin, with a sat­is­fied smile.

'How?' Har­ry asked, per­plexed.

'You weren't sup­posed to sur­vive!' said Sir­ius. 'No­body apart from his Death Eaters was sup­posed to know he'd come back. But you sur­vived to bear wit­ness.'

'And the very last per­son he want­ed alert­ed to his re­turn the mo­ment he got back was Dum­ble­dore,' said Lupin. 'And you made sure Dum­ble­dore knew at once.'

'How has that helped?' Har­ry asked.

'Are you kid­ding?' said Bill in­cred­ulous­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore was the on­ly one You-​Know-​Who was ev­er scared of!'

Thanks to you, Dum­ble­dore was able to re­call the Or­der of the Phoenix about an hour af­ter Volde­mort re­turned,' said Sir­ius.

'So, what's the Or­der been do­ing?' said Har­ry, look­ing around at them all.

'Work­ing as hard as we can to make sure Volde­mort can't car­ry out his plans,' said Sir­ius.

'How d'you know what his plans are?' Har­ry asked quick­ly.

'Dum­ble­dore's got a shrewd idea,' said Lupin, 'and Dum­ble­dore's shrewd ideas nor­mal­ly turn out to be ac­cu­rate.'

'So what does Dum­ble­dore reck­on he's plan­ning?'

'Well, first­ly, he wants to build up his army again,' said Sir­ius. 'In the old days he had huge num­bers at his com­mand: witch­es and wiz­ards he'd bul­lied or be­witched in­to fol­low­ing him, his faith­ful Death Eaters, a great va­ri­ety of Dark crea­tures. You heard him plan­ning to re­cruit the gi­ants; well, they'll be just one of the groups he's af­ter. He's cer­tain­ly not go­ing to try and take on the Min­istry of Mag­ic with on­ly a dozen Death Eaters.'

'So you're try­ing to stop him get­ting more fol­low­ers?'

'We're do­ing our best,' said Lupin.

'How?'

'Well, the main thing is to try and con­vince as many peo­ple as pos­si­ble that You-​Know-​Who re­al­ly has re­turned, to put them on their guard,' said Bill. 'It's prov­ing tricky, though.'

'Why?'

'Be­cause of the Min­istry's at­ti­tude,' said Tonks. 'You saw Cor­nelius Fudge af­ter You-​Know-​Who came back, Har­ry. Well, he hasn't shift­ed his po­si­tion at all. He's ab­so­lute­ly re­fus­ing to be­lieve it's hap­pened.'

'But why?' said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly. Why's he be­ing so stupid? If Dum­ble­dore -'

'Ah, well, you've put your fin­ger on the prob­lem,' said Mr Weasley with a wry smile. 'Dum­ble­dore.'

'Fudge is fright­ened of him, you see,' said Tonks sad­ly.

'Fright­ened of Dum­ble­dore?' said Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly.

'Fright­ened of what he's up to,' said Mr Weasley. 'Fudge thinks Dum­ble­dore's plot­ting to over­throw him. He thinks Dum­ble­dore wants to be Min­is­ter for Mag­ic.'

'But Dum­ble­dore doesn't want -'

'Of course he doesn't,' said Mr Weasley. 'He's nev­er want­ed the Min­is­ter's job, even though a lot of peo­ple want­ed him to take it when Mil­li­cent Bag­nold re­tired. Fudge came to pow­er in­stead, but

-

he's nev­er quite for­got­ten how much pop­ular sup­port Dum­ble­dore had, even though Dum­ble­dore nev­er ap­plied for the job.'

'Deep down, Fudge knows Dum­ble­dore's much clev­er­er than he is a much more pow­er­ful wiz­ard, and in the ear­ly days of his Min­istry he was for­ev­er ask­ing Dum­ble­dore for help and ad­vice,' said Lupin. 'But it seems he's be­come fond of pow­er, and much more con­fi­dent. He loves be­ing Min­is­ter for Mag­ic and he's man­aged to con­vince him­self that he's the clever one and Dum­ble­dore's sim­ply stir­ring up trou­ble for the sake of it.'

'How can he think that?' said Har­ry an­gri­ly. 'How can he think Dum­ble­dore would just make it all up - that I'd make it all up?'

'Be­cause ac­cept­ing that Volde­mort's back would mean trou­ble like the Min­istry hasn't had to cope with for near­ly four­teen years,' said Sir­ius bit­ter­ly. 'Fudge just can't bring him­self to face it. It's so much more com­fort­able to con­vince him­self Dum­ble­dore's ly­ing to desta­bilise him.'

'You see the prob­lem,' said Lupin. 'While the Min­istry in­sists there is noth­ing to fear from Volde­mort it's hard to con­vince peo­ple he's back, es­pe­cial­ly as they re­al­ly don't want to be­lieve it in the first place. What's more, the Min­istry's lean­ing heav­ily on the Dai­ly Prophet not to re­port any of what they're call­ing Dum­ble­dore's ru­mour-​mon­ger­ing, so most of the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty are com­plete­ly un­aware any things hap­pened, and that makes them easy tar­gets for the Death Eaters if they're us­ing the Im­perius Curse.'

'But you're telling peo­ple, aren't you?' said Har­ry, look­ing around at Mr Weasley, Sir­ius, Bill, Mundun­gus, Lupin and Tonks. 'You're let­ting peo­ple know he's back?'

They all smiled hu­mour­less­ly.

'Well, as ev­ery­one thinks I'm a mad mass-​mur­der­er and the Min­istry's put a ten thou­sand Galleon price on my head, I can hard­ly stroll up the street and start hand­ing out leaflets, can I?' said Sir­ius rest­less­ly.

'And I'm not a very pop­ular din­ner guest with most of the com­mu­ni­ty,' said Lupin. 'It's an oc­cu­pa­tion­al haz­ard of be­ing a were­wolf.'

'Tonks and Arthur would lose their jobs at the Min­istry if they start­ed shoot­ing their mouths off,' said Sir­ius, 'and it's very im­por­tant for us to have spies in­side the Min­istry, be­cause you can bet Volde­mort will have them.'

'We've man­aged to con­vince a cou­ple of peo­ple, though,' said Mr Weasley. Tonks here, for one - she's too young to have been in the Or­der of the Phoenix last time, and hav­ing Au­rors on our side is a huge ad­van­tage - Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt's been a re­al as­set, too; he's in charge of the hunt for Sir­ius, so he's been feed­ing the Min­istry in­for­ma­tion that Sir­ius is in Ti­bet.'

'But if none of you are putting the news out that Volde­mor­ts back -' Har­ry be­gan.

'Who said none of us are putting the news out?' said Sir­ius. Why d'you think Dum­ble­dore's in such trou­ble?'

'What d'you mean?' Har­ry asked.

They're try­ing to dis­cred­it him,' said Lupin. 'Didn't you see the Dai­ly Prophet last week? They re­port­ed that he'd been vot­ed out of the Chair­man­ship of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards be­cause he's get­ting old and los­ing his grip, but it's not true; he was vot­ed out by Min­istry wiz­ards af­ter he made a speech an­nounc­ing Volde­mor­ts re­turn. They've de­mot­ed him from Chief War­lock on the Wiz­eng­amot - that's the Wiz­ard High Court - and they're talk­ing about tak­ing away his Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, too.'

'But Dum­ble­dore says he doesn't care what they do as long as they don't take him off the Choco­late Frog Cards,' said Bill, grin­ning.

'It's no laugh­ing mat­ter,' said Mr Weasley sharply. 'If he car­ries on de­fy­ing the Min­istry like this he could end up in Azk­aban, and the last thing we want is to have Dum­ble­dore locked up. While You-​Know-​Who knows Dum­ble­dore's out there and wise to what he's up to he's go­ing to go cau­tious­ly. If Dum­ble­dore's out ol the way - well, You-​Know-​Who will have a clear field.'

'But if Volde­mort's try­ing to re­cruit more Death Eaters it's bound to get out that he's come back, isn't it?' asked Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

'Volde­mort doesn't march up to peo­ple's hous­es and bang on their front doors, Har­ry,' said Sir­ius. 'He tricks, jinx­es and black­mails them. He's well-​prac­tised at op­er­at­ing in se­cret. In any case, gath­er­ing fol­low­ers is on­ly one thing he's in­ter­est­ed in. He's got oth­er plans too, plans he can put in­to op­er­ation very qui­et­ly in­deed, and he's con­cen­trat­ing on those for the mo­ment.'

'What's he af­ter apart from fol­low­ers?' Har­ry asked swift­ly. He thought he saw Sir­ius and Lupin ex­change the most fleet­ing of looks be­fore Sir­ius an­swered.

'Stuff he can on­ly get by stealth.'

When Har­ry con­tin­ued to look puz­zled, Sir­ius said, 'Like a weapon. Some­thing he didn't have last time.'

'When he was pow­er­ful be­fore?'

'Yes.'

'Like what kind of weapon?' said Har­ry. 'Some­thing worse than the Ava­da Ke­davra -?'

'That's enough!'

Mrs. Weasley spoke from the shad­ows be­side the door. Har­ry hadn't no­ticed her re­turn from tak­ing Gin­ny up­stairs. Her arms were crossed and she looked fu­ri­ous.

'I want you in bed, now. All of you,' she added, look­ing around at Fred, George, Ron and Hermione.

'You can't boss us -' Fred be­gan.

'Watch me,' snarled Mrs. Weasley. She was trem­bling slight­ly as she looked at Sir­ius. 'You've giv­en Har­ry plen­ty of in­for­ma­tion. Any more and you might just as well in­duct him in­to the Or­der straight­away.'

'Why not?' said Har­ry quick­ly. Til join, I want to join, I want to fight.'

'No.'

It was not Mrs. Weasley who spoke this time, but Lupin.

The Or­der is com­prised on­ly of over­age wiz­ards,' he said. 'Wiz­ards who have left school,' he added, as Fred and Georg^ opened their mouths. There are dan­gers in­volved of which you can have no idea, any of you… I think Mol­ly's right, Sir­ius. We've said enough.'

Sir­ius half-​shrugged but did not ar­gue. Mrs. Weasley beck­oned im­pe­ri­ous­ly to her sons and Hermione. One by one they stood up and Har­ry, recog­nis­ing de­feat, fol­lowed suit.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 6 - The Noble and Most Ancient House of Black


Mrs. Weasley fol­lowed them up­stairs look­ing grim.

'I want you all to go straight to bed, no talk­ing,' she said as they reached the first land­ing, 'we've got a busy day to­mor­row. I ex­pect Gin­ny's asleep,' she added to Hermione, 'so try not to wake her up.'

'Asleep, yeah, right,' said Fred in an un­der­tone, af­ter Hermione bade them good­night and they were climb­ing to the next floor. 'If Gin­ny's not ly­ing awake wait­ing for Hermione to tell her ev­ery­thing they said down­stairs then I'm a Flob­ber­worm…'

'All right, Ron, Har­ry,' said Mrs. Weasley on the sec­ond land­ing, point­ing them in­to their bed­room. 'Off to bed with you.'

'Night,' Har­ry and Ron said to the twins.

'Sleep tight,' said Fred, wink­ing.

Mrs. Weasley closed the door be­hind Har­ry with a sharp snap. The bed­room looked, if any­thing, even danker and gloomi­er than it had on first sight. The blank pic­ture on the wall was now breath­ing very slow­ly and deeply, as though its in­vis­ible oc­cu­pant was asleep. Har­ry put on his py­ja­mas, took off his glass­es and climbed in­to his chilly bed while Ron threw Owl Treats up on top of the wardrobe to paci­fy Hed­wig and Pig­wid­geon, who were clat­ter­ing around and rustling their wings rest­less­ly.

'We can't let them out to hunt ev­ery night,' Ron ex­plained as he pulled on his ma­roon py­ja­mas. 'Dum­ble­dore doesn't want too many owls swoop­ing around the square, thinks it'll look sus­pi­cious. Oh yeah… I for­got…'

He crossed to the door and bolt­ed it.

'What're you do­ing that for?'

'Kreach­er,' said Ron as he turned off the light. 'First night I was here he came wan­der­ing in at three in the morn­ing. Trust me, you don't want to wake up and find him prowl­ing around your room. Any­way…' he got in­to his bed, set­tled down un­der the cov­ers then turned to look at Har­ry in the dark­ness; Har­ry could see his out­line by the moon­light fil­ter­ing in through the grimy win­dow, 'what d'you reck­on?'

Har­ry didn't need to ask what Ron meant.

'Well, they didn't tell us much we couldn't have guessed, did they?' he said, think­ing of all that had been said down­stairs. 'I mean, all they've re­al­ly said is that the Or­der's try­ing to stop peo­ple join­ing Vol—'

There was a sharp in­take of breath from Ron.

'—de­mort,' said Har­ry firm­ly. 'When are you go­ing to start us­ing his name? Sir­ius and Lupin do.'

Ron ig­nored this last com­ment.

'Yeah, you're right,' he said, 'we al­ready knew near­ly ev­ery­thing they told us, from us­ing the Ex­tend­able Ears. The on­ly new bit was -'

Crack.

'OUCH!'

'Keep your voice down, Ron, or Mum'll be back up here.'

'You two just Ap­pa­rat­ed on my knees!'

'Yeah, well, it's hard­er in the dark.'

Har­ry saw the blurred out­lines of Fred and George leap­ing down from Ron's bed. There was a groan of bed­springs and Har­ry's mat­tress de­scend­ed a few inch­es as George sat down near his feet.

'So, got there yet?' said George ea­ger­ly.

The weapon Sir­ius men­tioned?' said Har­ry.

'Let slip, more like,' said Fred with rel­ish, now sit­ting next to Ron. 'We didn't hear about that on the old Ex­tend­ables, did we?'

'What d'you reck­on it is?' said Har­ry.

'Could be any­thing,' said Fred.

'But there can't be any­thing worse than the Ava­da Ke­davra Curse, can there?' said Ron. What's worse than death?'

'Maybe it's some­thing that can kill loads of peo­ple at once,' sug­gest­ed George.

'Maybe it's some par­tic­ular­ly painful way of killing peo­ple,' said Ron fear­ful­ly.

'He's got the Cru­cia­tus Curse for caus­ing pain,' said Har­ry, 'he doesn't need any­thing more ef­fi­cient than that.'

There was a pause and Har­ry knew that the oth­ers, like him, were won­der­ing what hor­rors this weapon could per­pe­trate.

'So who d'you think's got it now?' asked George.

'I hope it's our side,' said Ron, sound­ing slight­ly ner­vous.

'If it is, Dum­ble­dore's prob­ably keep­ing it,' said Fred. *!

'Where?' said Ron quick­ly. 'Hog­warts?' •'

'Bet it is!' said George. That's where he hid the Philoso­pher's Stone.'

'A weapons go­ing to be a lot big­ger than the Stone, though!' said Ron.

'Not nec­es­sar­ily' said Fred.

'Yeah, size is no guar­an­tee of pow­er,' said George. 'Look at Gin­ny.'

'What d'you mean?' said Har­ry.

'You've nev­er been on the re­ceiv­ing end of one of her Bat-​Bo­gey Hex­es, have you?'

'Shhh!' said Fred, half-​ris­ing irom the bed. 'Lis­ten!'

They fell silent. Foot­steps were com­ing up the stairs.

'Mum,' said George and with­out fur­ther ado there was a loud crack and Har­ry felt the weight van­ish from the end of his bed. A few sec­onds lat­er, they heard the floor­board creak out­side their door; Mrs. Weasley was plain­ly lis­ten­ing to check whether or not they were talk­ing.

Hed­wig and Pig­wid­geon hoot­ed dole­ful­ly. The floor­board creaked again and they heard her head­ing up­stairs to check on Fred and George.

'She doesn't trust us at all, you know,' said Ron re­gret­ful­ly.

Har­ry was sure he would not be able to fall asleep; the evening had been so packed with things to think about that he ful­ly ex­pect­ed to lie awake for hours mulling it all over. He want­ed to con­tin­ue talk­ing to Ron, but Mrs. Weasley was now creak­ing back down­stairs again, and once she had gone he dis­tinct­ly heard oth­ers mak­ing their way up­stairs… in fact, many-​legged crea­tures were can­ter­ing soft­ly up and down out­side the bed­room door, and Ha­grid the Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er was say­ing, 'Beau­ties, arm they, eh, Har­ry? We'll be studyin' weapons this term …" and Har­ry saw that the crea­tures had can­nons for heads and were wheel­ing to face him… he ducked…

The next thing he knew, he was curled in­to a warm ball un­der his bed­clothes and Georges loud voice was fill­ing the room.

'Mum says get up, your break­fast is in the kitchen and then she needs you in the draw­ing room, there are loads more Doxys than she thought and she's found a nest of dead Puffskeins un­der the so­fa.'

Half an hour lat­er Har­ry and Ron, who had dressed and break­fast­ed quick­ly, en­tered the draw­ing room, a long, high-​ceilinged room on the first floor with olive green walls cov­ered in dirty tapestries. The car­pet ex­haled lit­tle clouds of dust ev­ery time some­one put their foot on it and the long, moss green vel­vet cur­tains were buzzing as though swarm­ing with in­vis­ible bees. It was around these that Mrs. Weasley, Hermione, Gin­ny, Fred and George were grouped, all look­ing rather pe­cu­liar as they had each tied a cloth over their nose and mouth. Each of them was al­so hold­ing a large bot­tle of black liq­uid with a noz­zle at the end.

'Cov­er your faces and take a spray,' Mrs. Weasley said to Har­ry and Ron the mo­ment she saw them, point­ing to two more bot­tles of black liq­uid stand­ing on a spin­dle-​legged ta­ble. 'It's Doxy­cide. I've nev­er seen an in­fes­ta­tion this bad - what that house-​elf's been do­ing for the last ten years -'

Hermione's face was half con­cealed by a tea tow­el but Har­ry dis­tinct­ly saw her throw a re­proach­ful look at Mrs. Weasley.

'Kreach­er's re­al­ly old, he prob­ably couldn't man­age -'

'You'd be sur­prised what Kreach­er can man­age when he wants to, Hermione,' said Sir­ius, who had just en­tered the room car­ry­ing a blood­stained bag of what ap­peared to be dead rats. 'I've just been feed­ing Buck­beak,' he added, in re­ply to Har­rys en­quir­ing look. 'I keep him up­stairs in my moth­ers bed­room. Any­way… this writ­ing desk…'

He dropped the bag of rals in­to an arm­chair, then bent over Jo ex­am­ine the locked cab­inet which, Har­ry now no­ticed for the fülst time, was shak­ing slight­ly.

'Well, Mol­ly, I'm pret­ty sure this is a Bog­gart,' said Sir­ius, peer­ing through the key­hole, 'but per­haps we ought to let Mad-​Eye have a shifty at it be­fore we let it out - know­ing my moth­er, it could be some­thing much worse.'

'Right you are, Sir­ius,' said Mrs. Weasley.

They were both speak­ing in care­ful­ly light, po­lite voic­es that told Har­ry quite plain­ly that nei­ther had for­got­ten their dis­agree­ment of the night be­fore.

A loud, clang­ing bell sound­ed from down­stairs, fol­lowed at once by the ca­copho­ny of screams and wails that had been trig­gered the pre­vi­ous night by Tonks knock­ing over the um­brel­la stand.

'I keep telling them not to ring the door­bell!' said Sir­ius exas-​per­at­ed­ly, hur­ry­ing out of the room. They heard him thun­der­ing down the stairs as Mrs. Black's screech­es echoed up through the house once more:

'Stains, of dis­hon­our, filthy half-​breeds, blood traitors, chil­dren of filth

'Close the door, please, Har­ry,' said Mrs. Weasley.

Har­ry took as much time as he dared to close the draw­ing-​room door; he want­ed to lis­ten to what was go­ing on down­stairs. Sir­ius had ob­vi­ous­ly man­aged to shut the cur­tains over his moth­er's por­trait be­cause she had stopped scream­ing. He heard Sir­ius walk­ing down the hall, then the clat­ter­ing of the chain on the front door, and then a deep voice he recog­nised as Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt's say­ing, 'Hes­tia's just re­lieved me, so she's got Moody's Cloak now, thought I'd leave a re­port for Dum­ble­dore…'

Feel­ing Mrs. Weasley's eyes on the back of his head, Har­ry re­gret­ful­ly closed the draw­ing-​room door and re­joined the Doxy par­ty.

Mrs. Weasley was bend­ing over to check the page on Doxys in Gilderoy Lock­hart's Guide to House­hold Pests, which was ly­ing open on the so­fa.

'Right, you lot, you need to be care­ful, be­cause Doxys bite and their teeth are poi­sonous. I've got a bot­tle of an­ti­dote here, but I'd rather no­body need­ed it.'

She straight­ened up, po­si­tioned her­self square­ly in front of the cur­tains and beck­oned them all for­ward.

'When I say the word, start spray­ing im­me­di­ate­ly,' she said. They'll come Hy­ing out at us, I ex­pect, but it says on the sprays one good squirt will paral­yse them. When they're im­mo­bilised, just throw them in this buck­et.'

She stepped care­ful­ly out of their line of fire, and raised her own spray.

'All right - squirt!'

Har­ry had been spray­ing on­ly a few sec­onds when a ful­ly-​grown Doxy came soar­ing out of a fold in the ma­te­ri­al, shiny bee­tle-​like wings whirring, tiny nee­dle-​sharp teeth bared, its fairy-​like body cov­ered with thick black hair and its four tiny lists clenched with fury. Har­ry caught it full in the face with a blast of Doxy­cide. It froze in midair and fell, with a sur­pris­ing­ly loud thunk, on to the worn car­pet be­low. Har­ry picked it up and threw it in the buck­et.

'Fred, what are you do­ing?' said Mrs. Weasley sharply. 'Spray that at once and throw it away!'

Har­ry looked round. Fred was hold­ing a strug­gling Doxy be­tween his fore­fin­ger and thumb.

'Right-​o,' Fred said bright­ly, spray­ing the Doxy quick­ly in the face so that it faint­ed, but the mo­ment Mrs. Weasley's back was turned he pock­et­ed it with a wink.

'We want to ex­per­iment with Doxy ven­om for our Skiv­ing Snack­box­es,' George told Har­ry un­der his breath.

Deft­ly spray­ing two Doxys at once as they soared straight for his nose, Har­ry moved clos­er to George and mut­tered out of the cor­ner of his mouth, 'What are Skiv­ing Snack­box­es?'

'Range of sweets to make you ill,' George whis­pered, keep­ing a wary eye on Mrs. Weasley's back. 'Not se­ri­ous­ly ill, mind, just ill enough to get you out of a class when you feel like it. Fred and I have been de­vel­op­ing them this sum­mer. They're dou­ble-​end­ed, colour-​cod­ed chews. If you eat the or­ange half of the Puk­ing Pastilles, you throw up. Mo­ment you've been rushed out of the les­son for the hos­pi­tal wing, you swal­low the pur­ple half -'

''- which re­stores you to full fit­ness, en­abling you to pur­sue the leisure ac­tiv­ity of your own choice dur­ing an hour that would oth­er­wise have been de­vot­ed to un­prof­itable bore­dom." That's what we're putting in the ad­verts, any­way,' whis­pered Fred, who had edged over out of Mrs. Weasley's line of vi­sion and was now sweep­ing a few stray Doxys from the floor and adding them to his pock­et. 'But they still need a bit of work. At the mo­ment our testers are hav­ing a bit of trou­ble stop­ping them­selves puk­ing long enough to swal­low the pur­ple end.'

Testers?'

'Us,' said Fred. 'We take it in turns. George did the Faint­ing Fan­cies - we both tried the Nose­bleed Nougat -'

'Mum thought we'd been du­elling,' said George.

'Joke shop still on, then?' Har­ry mut­tered, pre­tend­ing to be ad­just­ing the noz­zle on his spray.

'Well, we haven't had a chance to get premis­es yet,' said Fred, drop­ping his voice even low­er as Mrs. Weasley mopped her brow with her scarf be­fore re­turn­ing to the at­tack, 'so we're run­ning it as a mail-​or­der ser­vice at the mo­ment. We put ad­ver­tise­ments in the Dai­ly Prophet last week.'

'All thanks to you, mate,' said George. 'But don't wor­ry… Mum hasn't got a clue. She won't read the Dai­ly Prophet any more, 'cause of it telling lies about you and Dum­ble­dore.'

Har­ry grinned. He had forced the Weasley twins to take the thou­sand Galleons prize mon­ey he had won in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment to help them re­alise their am­bi­tion to open a joke shop, but he was still glad to know that his part in fur­ther­ing their plans was un­known to Mrs. Weasley. She did not think run­ning a joke shop was a suit­able ca­reer for two of her sons.

The de-​Doxy­ing of the cur­tains took most of the morn­ing. It was past mid­day when Mrs. Weasley fi­nal­ly re­moved her pro­tec­tive scarf, sank in­to a sag­ging arm­chair and sprang up again with a cry of dis­gust, hav­ing sat on the bag of dead rats. The cur­tains were no longer buzzing; they hung limp and damp from the in­ten­sive spray­ing. At the foot of them un­con­scious Doxys lay crammed in the buck­et be­side a bowl of their black eggs, at which Crook-​shanks was now sniff­ing and Fred and George were shoot­ing cov­etous looks.

'I think we'll tack­le those af­ter lunch.' Mrs. Weasley point­ed at the dusty glass-​front­ed cab­inets stand­ing on ei­ther side of the man­tel­piece. They were crammed with an odd as­sort­ment of ob­jects: a se­lec­tion of rusty dag­gers, claws, a coiled snake­skin, a num­ber of tar­nished sil­ver box­es in­scribed with lan­guages Har­ry could not un­der­stand and, least pleas­ant of all, an or­nate crys­tal bot­tle with a large opal set in­to the stop­per, full of what Har­ry was quite sure was blood.

The clang­ing door­bell rang again. Ev­ery­one looked at Mrs. Weasley.

'Stay here,' she said firm­ly, snatch­ing up the bag of rats as Mrs. Black's screech­es start­ed up again from down be­low. I'll bring up some sand­wich­es.'

She left the room, clos­ing the door care­ful­ly be­hind her. At once, ev­ery­one dashed over to the win­dow to look down on the doorstep. They could see the top of an un­kempt gin­gery head and a stack of pre­car­ious­ly bal­anced caul­drons.

'Mundun­gus!' said Hermione. 'What's he brought all those caul­drons for?'

'Prob­ably look­ing for a sale place to keep them,' said Har­ry. 'Isn't that what he was do­ing the night he was sup­posed to be tail­ing me? Pick­ing up dodgy caul­drons?'

'Yeah, you're right!' said Fred, as the front door opened; Mundun­gus heaved his caul­drons through it and dis­ap­peared from view. 'Blimey, Mum won't like that…'

He and George crossed to the door and stood be­side it, lis­ten­ing close­ly. Mrs. Black's scream­ing had stopped.

'Mundun­gus is talk­ing to Sir­ius and Kings­ley,' Fred mut­tered, frown­ing with con­cen­tra­tion. 'Can't hear prop­er­ly… d'you reck­on we can risk the Ex­tend­able Ears?'

'Might be worth it,' said George. 'I could sneak up­stairs and get a pair -'

But at that pre­cise mo­ment there was an ex­plo­sion of sound from down­stairs that ren­dered Ex­tend­able Ears quite un­nec­es­sary. All of them could hear ex­act­ly what Mrs. Weasley was shout­ing at the top of her voice.

WE ARE NOT RUN­NING A HIDE­OUT FOR STOLEN GOODS!'

I love hear­ing Mum shout­ing at some­one else,' said Fred, with a sat­is­fied smile on his face as he opened the door an inch or so to al­low Mrs. Weasley's voice to per­me­ate the room bet­ter, 'it makes such a nice change.'

'- COM­PLETE­LY IR­RE­SPON­SI­BLE, AS IF WE HAVEN'T GOT ENOUGH TO WOR­RY ABOUT WITH­OUT YOU DRAG­GING STOLEN CAUL­DRONS IN­TO THE HOUSE -'

The id­iots are let­ting her get in­to her stride,' said George, shak­ing his head. 'You've got to head her off ear­ly oth­er­wise she builds up a head of steam and goes on for hours. And she's been dy­ing to have a go at Mundun­gus ev­er since he sneaked off when he was sup­posed to be fol­low­ing you, Har­ry - and there goes Sir­ius's mum again.'

Mrs. Weasley's voice was lost amid fresh shrieks and screams from the por­traits in the hall.

George made to shut the door to drown the noise, but be­fore he could do so, a house-​elf edged in­to the room.

Ex­cept for the filthy rag tied like a loin­cloth around its mid­dle, it was com­plete­ly naked. It looked very old. Its skin seemed to be sev­er­al times too big for it and, though it was bald like all house-​elves, there was a quan­ti­ty of white hair grow­ing out of its large, bat­like ears. Its eyes were a blood­shot and wa­tery grey and its fleshy nose was large and rather snout­like.

The elf took ab­so­lute­ly no no­tice of Har­ry and the rest. Act­ing as though it could not see them, it shuf­fled hunch­backed, slow­ly and dogged­ly, to­wards the far end of the room, all the while mut­ter­ing un­der its breath in a hoarse, deep voice like a bull­frogs.

'… smells like a drain and a crim­inal to boot, but she's no bet­ter, nasty old blood traitor with her brats mess­ing up my mis­tress's house, oh, my poor mis­tress, if she knew, if she knew the scum they've let in­to her house, what would she say to old Kreach­er, oh, the shame of it, Mud­bloods and were­wolves and traitors and thieves, poor old Kreach­er, what can he do…'

'Hel­lo, Kreach­er,' said Fred very loud­ly, clos­ing the door with a snap.

The house-​elf froze in his tracks, stopped mut­ter­ing, and gave a very pro­nounced and very un­con­vinc­ing start of sur­prise.

'Kreach­er did not see young mas­ter,' he said, turn­ing around and bow­ing to Fred. Still fac­ing the car­pet, he added, per­fect­ly au­di­bly, 'Nasty lit­tle brat of a blood traitor it is.'

'Sor­ry?' said George. 'Didn't catch that last bit.'

'Kreach­er said noth­ing,' said the elf, with a sec­ond bow to George, adding in a clear un­der­tone, 'and there's its twin, un­nat­ural lit­tle beasts they are.'

Har­ry didn't know whether to laugh or not. The elf straight­ened up, eye­ing them all malev­olent­ly, and ap­par­ent­ly con­vinced that they could not hear him as he con­tin­ued to mut­ter.

'… and there's the Mud­blood, stand­ing there bold as brass, oh, if my mis­tress knew, oh, how she'd cry, and there's a new boy, Kreach­er doesn't know his name. What is he do­ing here? Kreach­er doesn't know…"

This is Har­ry, Kreach­er,' said Her­rmone ten­ta­tive­ly. 'Har­ry Pot­ter.'

Kreach­er's pale eyes widened and he mut­tered faster and more fu­ri­ous­ly than ev­er.

The Mud­blood is talk­ing to Kreach­er as though she is my friend, if Kreach­er's mis­tress saw him in such com­pa­ny, oh, what would she say -'

'Don't call her a Mud­blood!' said Ron and Gin­ny to­geth­er, very an­gri­ly.

'It doesn't mat­ter,' Hermione whis­pered, 'he's not in his right mind, he doesn't know what he's -'

'Don't kid your­self, Hermione, he knows ex­act­ly what he's say­ing,' said Fred, eye­ing Kreach­er with great dis­like.

Kreach­er was still mut­ter­ing, his eyes on Har­ry.

'Is it true? Is it Har­ry Pot­ter? Kreach­er can see the scar, it must be true, that's the boy who stopped the Dark Lord, Kreach­er won­ders how he did it -'

'Don't we all, Kreach­er,' said Fred.

'What do you want, any­way?' George asked.

Kreach­er's huge eyes dart­ed to­wards George.

'Kreach­er is clean­ing,' he said eva­sive­ly.

'A like­ly sto­ry,' said a voice be­hind Har­ry.

Sir­ius had come back; he was glow­er­ing at the elf from the door­way. The noise in the hall had abat­ed; per­haps Mrs. Weasley and Mundun­gus had moved their ar­gu­ment down in­to the kitchen.

At the sight of Sir­ius, Kreach­er flung him­self in­to a ridicu­lous­ly low bow that flat­tened his snoutltke nose on the floor.

'Stand up straight,' said Sir­ius im­pa­tient­ly. 'Now, what are you up to?'

'Kreach­er is clean­ing,' the elf re­peat­ed. 'Kreach­er lives to serve the No­ble House of Black -'

'And it's get­ting black­er ev­ery day, it's filthy,' said Sir­ius.

'Mas­ter al­ways liked his lit­tle joke,' said Kreach­er, bow­ing again, and con­tin­uing in an un­der­tone, 'Mas­ter was a nasty un­grate­ful swine who broke his moth­er's heart -'

'My moth­er didn't have a heart, Kreach­er,' snapped Sir­ius. 'She kept her­self alive out of pure spite.'

Kreach­er bowed again as he spoke.

'What­ev­er Mas­ter says,' he mut­tered fu­ri­ous­ly. 'Mas­ter is not fit to wipe slime from his moth­er's boots, oh, my poor mis­tress, what would she say if she saw Kreach­er serv­ing him, how she hat­ed him, what a dis­ap­point­ment he was -'

'1 asked you what you were up to,' said Sir­ius cold­ly. 'Ev­ery time you show up pre­tend­ing to be clean­ing, you sneak some­thing off to your room so we can't throw it out.'

'Kreach­er would nev­er move any­thing from its prop­er place in Mas­ter's house,' said the elf, then mut­tered very fast, 'Mis­tress would nev­er for­give Kreach­er if the tapestry was thrown out, sev­en cen­turies it's been in the fam­ily, Kreach­er must save it, Kreach­er will not let Mas­ter and the blood traitors and the brats de­stroy it -'

'I thought it might be that,' said Sir­ius, cast­ing a dis­dain­ful look at the op­po­site wall. 'She'll have put an­oth­er Per­ma­nent Stick­ing Charm on the back of it, I don't doubt, but if I can get rid of it I cer­tain­ly will. Now go away, Kreach­er.'

It seemed that Kreach­er did not dare dis­obey a di­rect or­der; nev­er­the­less, the look he gave Sir­ius as he shuf­fled out past him was full of deep­est loathing and he mut­tered all the way out of the room.

'- comes back from Azk­aban or­der­ing Kreach­er around, oh, my poor mis­tress, what would she say if she saw the house now, scum liv­ing in it, her trea­sures thrown out, she swore he was no son of hers and he's back, they say he's a mur­der­er too -'

'Keep mut­ter­ing and I will be a mur­der­er!' said Sir­ius ir­ri­ta­bly as he slammed the door shut on the elf.

'Sir­ius, he's not right in the head,' Hermione plead­ed, '1 don't think he re­alis­es we can hear him.'

'He's been alone too long,' said Sir­ius, 'tak­ing mad or­ders from my moth­er's por­trait and talk­ing to him­self, but he was al­ways a foul lit­tle -'

'If you could just set him free,' said Hermione hope­ful­ly, 'maybe -'

'We can't set him free, he knows too much about the Or­der,' said Sir­ius curt­ly. 'And any­way, the shock would kill him. You sug­gest to him that he leaves this house, see how he takes it.'

Sir­ius walked across the room to where the tapestry Kreach­er had been try­ing to pro­tect hung the length of the wall. Har­ry and the oth­ers fol­lowed.

The tapestry looked im­mense­ly old; it was fad­ed and looked as though Doxys had gnawed it in places. Nev­er­the­less, the gold­en thread with which it was em­broi­dered still glint­ed bright­ly enough to show them a sprawl­ing fam­ily tree dat­ing back (as far as Har­ry could tell) to the Mid­dle Ages. Large words at the very top of the tapestry read:

The No­ble and Most An­cient House oj Black Tou­jours pur'

'You're not on here!' said Har­ry, af­ter scan­ning the bot­tom of the tree close­ly.

'I used to be there,' said Sir­ius, point­ing at a small, round, charred hole in the tapestry, rather like a cigarette burn. 'My sweet old moth­er blast­ed me off af­ter I ran away from home - Kreach­er's quite fond of mut­ter­ing the sto­ry un­der his breath.'

'You ran away from home?'

'When I was about six­teen,' said Sir­ius. 'I'd had enough.'

'Where did you go?' asked Har­ry, star­ing at him.

'Your dad's place,' said Sir­ius. 'Your grand­par­ents were re­al­ly good about it; they sort of adopt­ed me as a sec­ond son. Yeah, I camped out at your dad's in the school hol­idays, and when I was sev­en­teen I got a place of my own. My Un­cle Al­phard had left me a de­cent bit of gold - he's been wiped off here, too, that's prob­ably why - any­way, af­ter that I looked af­ter my­self. I was al­ways wel­come at Mr and Mrs. Pot­ter's for Sun­day lunch, though.'

'But… why did you… ?'

'Leave?' Sir­ius smiled bit­ter­ly and ran his fin­gers through his long, un­kempt hair. 'Be­cause I hat­ed the whole lot of them: my par­ents, with their pure-​blood ma­nia, con­vinced that to be a Black made you prac­ti­cal­ly roy­al… my id­iot broth­er, soft enough to be­lieve them… that's him.'

Sir­ius jabbed a fin­ger at the very bot­tom of the tree, at the name 'Reg­ulus Black'. A date of death (some fif­teen years pre­vi­ous­ly) fol­lowed the date of birth.

'He was younger than me,' said Sir­ius, 'and a much bet­ter son, as I was con­stant­ly re­mind­ed.'

'But he died,' said Har­ry.

'Yeah,' said Sir­ius. 'Stupid id­iot… he joined the Death Eaters.'

'You're kid­ding!'

'Come on, Har­ry, haven't you seen enough of this house to tell what kind of wiz­ards my fam­ily were?' said Sir­ius testi­ly.

'Were - were your par­ents Death Eaters as well?'

'No, no, but be­lieve me, they thought Volde­mort had the right idea, they were all for the pu­rifi­ca­tion of the wiz­ard­ing race, get­ting rid of Mug­gle-​borns and hav­ing pure-​bloods in charge. They weren't alone, ei­ther, there were quite a few peo­ple, be­fore Volde­mort showed his true colours, who thought he had the right idea about things… they got cold feet when they saw what he was pre­pared to do to get pow­er, though. But I bet my par­ents thought Reg­ulus was a right lit­tle hero for join­ing up at first.'

'Was he killed by an Au­ror?' Har­ry asked ten­ta­tive­ly.

'Oh, no,' said Sir­ius. 'No, he was mur­dered by Volde­mort. Or on Volde­mort's or­ders, more like­ly; I doubt Reg­ulus was ev­er im­por­tant enough to be killed by Volde­mort in per­son. From what I found out af­ter he died, he got in so far, then pan­icked about what he was be­ing asked to do and tried to back out. Well, you don't just hand in your res­ig­na­tion to Volde­mort. It's a life­time of ser­vice or death.'

'Lunch,' said Mrs. Weasleys voice.

She was hold­ing her wand high in front of her, bal­anc­ing a huge tray load­ed with sand­wich­es and cake on its tip. She was very red in the face and still looked an­gry. The oth­ers moved over to her, ea­ger for some food, but Har­ry re­mained with Sir­ius, who had bent clos­er to the tapestry.

'I haven't looked at this for years. There's Phineas Nigel­lus… my great-​great-​grand­fa­ther, see?… least pop­ular Head­mas­ter Hog­warts ev­er had… and Aram­inta Mehflua… cousin of my moth­ers… tried to force through a Min­istry Bill to make Mug­gle-​hunt­ing le­gal… and dear Aunt El­lado­ra… she start­ed the fam­ily tra­di­tion of be­head­ing house-​elves when they got too old to car­ry tea trays… of course, any time the fam­ily pro­duced some­one halfway de­cent they were dis­owned. I see Tonks isn't on here. Maybe that's why Kreach­er won't take or­ders from her - he's sup­posed to do what­ev­er any­one in the fam­ily asks him -'

'You and Tonks are re­lat­ed?' Har­ry asked, sur­prised.

'Oh, yeah, her moth­er An­drome­da was my favourite cousin,' said Sir­ius, ex­am­in­ing the tapestry close­ly. 'No, An­drome­da's not on here ei­ther, look -'

He point­ed to an­oth­er small round burn mark be­tween two names, Bel­la­trix and Nar­cis­sa.

'An­drome­da's sis­ters are still here be­cause they made love­ly, re­spectable pure-​blood mar­riages, but An­drome­da mar­ried a Mug­gle-​born, Ted Tonks, so -'

Sir­ius mimed blast­ing the tapestry with a wand and laughed sourly. Har­ry, how­ev­er, did not laugh; he was too busy star­ing at the names to the right of An­drome­da's burn mark. A dou­ble line of gold em­broi­dery linked Nar­cis­sa Black with Lu­cius Mal­foy and a sin­gle ver­ti­cal gold line from their names led to the name Dra­co.

'You're re­lat­ed to the Mal­foys!'

The pure-​blood fam­ilies are all in­ter­re­lat­ed,' said Sir­ius. Tf you're on­ly go­ing to let your sons and daugh­ters mar­ry pure-​bloods your choice is very lim­it­ed; there are hard­ly any of us left. Mol­ly and I are cousins by mar­riage and Arthur's some­thing like my sec­ond cousin once re­moved. But there's no point look­ing for them on here - if ev­er a fam­ily was a bunch of blood traitors it's the Weasleys.'

But Har­ry was now look­ing at the name to the left of An­drome­da's burn: Bel­la­trix Black, which was con­nect­ed by a dou­ble line to Rodol­phus Lestrange.

'Lestrange…' Har­ry said aloud. The name had stirred some­thing in his mem­ory; he knew it from some­where, but for a mo­ment he couldn't think where, though it gave him an odd, creep­ing sen­sa­tion in the pit of his stom­ach.

They're in Azk­aban,' said Sir­ius short­ly.

Har­ry looked at him cu­ri­ous­ly.

'Bel­la­trix and her hus­band Rodol­phus came in with Bar­ty Crouch ju­nior,' said Sir­ius, in the same brusque voice. 'Rodol­phuss broth­er Rabas­tan was with them, too.'

Then Har­ry re­mem­bered. He had seen Bel­la­trix Lestrange in­side Dum­ble­dore's Pen­sieve, the strange de­vice in which thoughts and mem­ories could be stored: a tall dark wom­an with heavy-​lid­ded eyes, who had stood at her tri­al and pro­claimed her con­tin­uing al­le­giance to Lord Volde­mort, her pride that she had tried to find him af­ter his down­fall and her con­vic­tion that she would one day be re­ward­ed for her loy­al­ty.

'You nev­er said she was your -'

'Does it mat­ter if she's my cousin?' snapped Sir­ius. 'As far as I'm con­cerned, they're not my fam­ily. She's cer­tain­ly not my fam­ily. I haven't seen her since I was your age, un­less you count a glimpse of her com­ing in­to Azk­aban. D'you think I'm proud of hav­ing a rel­ative like her?'

'Sor­ry,' said Har­ry quick­ly, 'I didn't mean - I was just sur­prised, that's all -'

'It doesn't mat­ter, don't apol­ogise,' Sir­ius mum­bled. He turned away from the tapestry, his hands deep in his pock­ets. 'I don't like be­ing back here,' he said, star­ing across the draw­ing room. 'I nev­er thought I'd be stuck in this house again.'

Har­ry un­der­stood com­plete­ly. He knew how he would feel, when he was grown up and thought he was free of the place for ev­er, to re­turn and live at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive.

'It's ide­al for Head­quar­ters, of course,' Sir­ius said. 'My fa­ther put ev­ery se­cu­ri­ty mea­sure known to wiz­ard­kind on it when he lived here. It's un­plot­table, so Mug­gles could nev­er come and call - as if they'd ev­er have want­ed to - and now Dum­ble­dore's added his pro­tec­tion, you'd be hard put to find a safer house any­where. Dum­ble­dore is Se­cret Keep­er for the Or­der, you know - no­body can find Head­quar­ters un­less he tells them per­son­al­ly where it is - that note Moody showed you last night, that was from Dum­ble­dore…' Sir­ius gave a short, bark-​like laugh. 'If my par­ents could see the use their house was be­ing put to now… well, my moth­ers por­trait should give you some idea

He scowled for a mo­ment, then sighed.

'I wouldn't mind if I could just get out oc­ca­sion­al­ly and do some­thing use­ful. I've asked Dum­ble­dore whether I can es­cort you to your hear­ing - as Snuf­fles, ob­vi­ous­ly - so I can give you a bit of moral sup­port, what d'you think?'

Har­ry felt as though his stom­ach had sunk through the dusty car­pet. He had not thought about the hear­ing once since din­ner the pre­vi­ous evening; in the ex­cite­ment of be­ing back with the peo­ple he liked best, and hear­ing ev­ery­thing that was go­ing on, it had com­plete­ly flown his mind. At Sir­ius's words, how­ev­er, the crush­ing sense of dread re­turned to him. He stared at Hermione and the Weasleys, all tuck­ing in­to their sand­wich­es, and thought how he would feel if they went back to Hog­warts with­out him.

'Don't wor­ry,' Sir­ius said. Har­ry looked up and re­alised that Sir­ius had been watch­ing him. 'I'm sure they'll clear you, there's def­inite­ly some­thing in the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy about be­ing al­lowed to use mag­ic to save your own life.'

'But if they do ex­pel me,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly, 'can I come back here and live with you?'

Sir­ius smiled sad­ly.

'We'll see.'

'I'd feel a lot bet­ter about the hear­ing if I knew I didn't have to go back to the Durs­leys',' Har­ry pressed him.

'They must be bad if you pre­fer this place,' said Sir­ius gloomi­ly.

'Hur­ry up, you two, or there won't be any food left,' Mrs. Weasley called.

Sir­ius heaved an­oth­er great sigh, cast a dark look at the tapestry, then he and Har­ry went to join the oth­ers.

Har­ry tried his best not to think about the hear­ing while they emp­tied the glass-​front­ed cab­inets that af­ter­noon. For­tu­nate­ly for him, it was a job that re­quired a lot of con­cen­tra­tion, as many of the ob­jects in there seemed very re­luc­tant to leave their dusty shelves. Sir­ius sus­tained a bad bite from a sil­ver snuff­box; with­in sec­onds his bit­ten hand had de­vel­oped an un­pleas­ant crusty cov­er­ing like a tough brown glove.

'Its OK,' he said, ex­am­in­ing the hand with in­ter­est be­fore tap­ping it light­ly with his wand and restor­ing its skin to nor­mal, 'must be Wart­cap pow­der in there.'

He threw the box aside in­to the sack where they were de­posit­ing the de­bris from the cab­inets; Har­ry saw George wrap his own hand care­ful­ly in a cloth mo­ments lat­er and sneak the box in­to his al­ready Doxy-​filled pock­et.

They found an un­pleas­ant-​look­ing sil­ver in­stru­ment, some­thing like a many-​legged pair of tweez­ers, which scut­tled up Har­rys arm like a spi­der when he picked it up, and at­tempt­ed to punc­ture his skin. Sir­ius seized it and smashed it with a heavy book en­ti­tled Na­ture's No­bil­ity: A Wiz­ard­ing Ge­neal­ogy. There was a mu­si­cal box that emit­ted a faint­ly sin­is­ter, tin­kling tune when wound, and they all found them­selves be­com­ing cu­ri­ous­ly weak and sleepy, un­til Gin­ny had the sense to slam the lid shut; a heavy lock­et that none of them could open; a num­ber of an­cient seals; and, in a dusty box, an Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, that had been award­ed to Sir­ius's grand­fa­ther for 'ser­vices to the Min­istry'.

'It means he gave them a load of gold,' said Sir­ius con­temp­tu­ous­ly, throw­ing the medal in­to the rub­bish sack.

Sev­er­al times Kreach­er si­dled in­to the room and at­tempt­ed to smug­gle things away un­der his loin­cloth, mut­ter­ing hor­ri­ble curs­es ev­ery time they caught him at it. When Sir­ius wrest­ed a large gold­en ring bear­ing the Black crest from his grip, Kreach­er ac­tu­al­ly burst in­to fu­ri­ous tears and left the room sob­bing un­der his breath and call­ing Sir­ius names Har­ry had nev­er heard be­fore.

'It was my fa­ther's,' said Sir­ius, throw­ing the ring in­to the sack. 'Kreach­er wasn't quite as de­vot­ed to him as to my moth­er, but I still caught him snog­ging a pair of my fa­ther's old trousers last week.'

Weasley kept them all work­ing very hard over the next few days. The draw­ing room took three days to de­con­tam­inate. Fi­nal­ly, the on­ly un­de­sir­able things left in it were the tapestry of the Black fam­ily tree, which re­sist­ed all their at­tempts to re­move it from the wall, and the rat­tling writ­ing desk. Moody had not dropped by Head­quar­ters yet, so they could not be sure what was in­side it.

They moved from the draw­ing room to a din­ing room on the ground floor where they found spi­ders as large as saucers lurk­ing in the dress­er (Ron left the room hur­ried­ly to make a cup of tea and did not re­turn for an hour and a half). The chi­na, which bore the Black crest and mot­to, was all thrown un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly in­to a sack by Sir­ius, and the same fate met a set of old pho­tographs in tar­nished sil­ver frames, all of whose oc­cu­pants squealed shril­ly as the glass cov­er­ing them smashed.

Snape might re­fer to their work as 'clean­ing', but in Har­rys opin­ion they were re­al­ly wag­ing war on the house, which was putting up a very good fight, aid­ed and abet­ted by Kreach­er. The house-​elf kept ap­pear­ing wher­ev­er they were con­gre­gat­ed, his mut­ter­ing be­com­ing more and more of­fen­sive as he at­tempt­ed to re­move any­thing he could from the rub­bish sacks. Sir­ius went as far as to threat­en him with clothes, but Kreach­er fixed him with a wa­tery stare and said, 'Mas­ter must do as Mas­ter wish­es,' be­fore turn­ing away and mut­ter­ing very loud­ly, 'but Mas­ter will not turn Kreach­er away, no, be­cause Kreach­er knows what they are up to, oh yes, he is plot­ting against the Dark Lord, yes, with these Mud­bloods and traitors and scum…'

At which Sir­ius, ig­nor­ing Hermione's protests, seized Kreach­er by the back of his loin­cloth and threw him bod­ily from the room.

The door­bell rang sev­er­al times a day, which was the cue for Sir­ius's moth­er to start shriek­ing again, and for Har­ry and the oth­ers to at­tempt to eaves­drop on the vis­itor, though they gleaned very lit­tle from the brief glimpses and snatch­es of con­ver­sa­tion they were able to sneak be­fore Mrs. Weasley re­called them to their tasks. Snape flit­ted in and out of the house sev­er­al times more, though to Har­ry's re­lief they nev­er came face to face; Har­ry al­so caught sight of his Trans­fig­ura­tion teach­er Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing very odd in a Mug­gle dress and coat, and she al­so seemed too busy to linger. Some­times, how­ev­er, the vis­itors stayed to help. Tonks joined them for a mem­orable af­ter­noon in which they found a mur­der­ous old ghoul lurk­ing in an up­stairs toi­let, and Lupin, who was stay­ing in the house with Sir­ius but who left it for long pe­ri­ods to do mys­te­ri­ous work for the Or­der, helped them re­pair a grand­fa­ther clock that had de­vel­oped the un­pleas­ant habit of shoot­ing heavy bolts at passers-​by. Mundun­gus re­deemed him­self slight­ly in Mrs. Weasley's eyes by res­cu­ing Ron from an an­cient set of pur­ple robes that had tried to stran­gle him when he re­moved them from their wardrobe.

De­spite the fact that he was still sleep­ing bad­ly, still hav­ing dreams about cor­ri­dors and locked doors that made his scar prick­le, Har­ry was man­ag­ing to have fun for the first time all sum­mer. As long as he was busy he was hap­py; when the ac­tion abat­ed, how­ev­er, when­ev­er he dropped his guard, or lay ex­haust­ed in bed watch­ing blurred shad­ows move across the ceil­ing, the thought of the loom­ing Min­istry hear­ing re­turned to him. Fear jabbed at his in­sides like nee­dles as he won­dered what was go­ing to hap­pen to him if he was ex­pelled. The idea was so ter­ri­ble that he did not dare voice it aloud, not even to Ron and Hermione, who, though he of­ten saw them whis­per­ing to­geth­er and cast­ing anx­ious looks in his di­rec­tion, fol­lowed his lead in not men­tion­ing it. Some­times, he could not pre­vent his imag­ina­tion show­ing him a face­less Min­istry of­fi­cial who was snap­ping his wand in two and or­der­ing him back to the Durs­leys'… but he would not go. He was de­ter­mined on that. He would come back here to Grim­mauld Place and live with Sir­ius.

He felt as though a brick had dropped in­to his stom­ach when Mrs. Weasley turned to him dur­ing din­ner on Wednes­day evening and said qui­et­ly, 'I've ironed your best clothes for to­mor­row morn­ing, Har­ry, and I want you to wash your hair tonight, too. A good first im­pres­sion can work won­ders.'

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George and Gin­ny all stopped talk­ing and looked over at him. Har­ry nod­ded and tried to keep eat­ing his chop, but his mouth had be­come so dry he could not chew.

'How am I get­ting there?' he asked Mrs. Weasley, try­ing to sound un­con­cerned.

'Arthurs tak­ing you to work with him,' said Mrs. Weasley gen­tly.

Mr Weasley smiled en­cour­ag­ing­ly at Har­ry across the ta­ble.

'You can wait in my of­fice un­til it's time for the hear­ing,' he said.

Har­ry looked over at Sir­ius, but be­fore he could ask the ques­tion, Mrs. Weasley had an­swered it.

'Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore doesn't think it's a good idea for Sir­ius to go with you, and I must say I -'

'- think he's quite right,' said Sir­ius through clenched teeth.

Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips.

'When did Dum­ble­dore tell you that?' Har­ry said, star­ing at Sir­ius.

'He came last night, when you were in bed,' said Mr Weasley.

Sir­ius stabbed mood­ily at a pota­to with his fork. Har­ry low­ered his own eyes to his plate. The thought that Dum­ble­dore had been in the house on the eve of his hear­ing and not asked to see him made him feel, if it were pos­si­ble, even worse.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 7 - The Ministry of Magic


Har­ry awoke at half past five the next morn­ing as abrupt­ly and com­plete­ly as if some­body had yelled in his ear. For a few mo­ments he lay im­mo­bile as the prospect of the dis­ci­plinary hear­ing filled ev­ery tiny par­ti­cle of his brain, then, un­able to bear it, he leapt out of bed and put on his glass­es. Mrs. Weasley had laid out his fresh­ly laun­dered jeans and T-​shirt at the foot of his bed. Har­ry scram­bled in­to them. The blank pic­ture on the wall snig­gered.

Ron was ly­ing sprawled on his back with his mouth wide open, fast asleep. He did not stir as Har­ry crossed the room, stepped out on to the land­ing and closed the door soft­ly be­hind him. Try­ing not to think of the next time he would see Ron, when they might no longer be fel­low stu­dents at Hog­warts, Har­ry walked qui­et­ly down the stairs, past the heads of Kreach­er's an­ces­tors, and down in­to the kitchen.

He had ex­pect­ed it to be emp­ty, but when he reached the door he heard the soft rum­ble of voic­es on the oth­er side. He pushed it open and saw Mr and Mrs. Weasley, Sir­ius, Lupin and Tonks sit­ting there al­most as though they were wait­ing for him. All were ful­ly dressed ex­cept Mrs. Weasley, who was wear­ing a quilt­ed pur­ple dress­ing gown. She leapt to her feet the mo­ment Har­ry en­tered.

'Break­fast,' she said as she pulled out her wand and hur­ried over to the fire.

'M - in - morn­ing, Har­ry,' yawned Tonks. Her hair was blonde and curly this morn­ing. 'Sleep all right?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry.

'I've b - b - been up all night,' she said, with an­oth­er shud­der­ing yawn. 'Come and sit down…'

She drew out a chair, knock­ing over the one be­side it in the pro­cess.

'What do you want, Har­ry?' Mrs. Weasley called. 'Por­ridge? Muffins? Kip­pers? Ba­con and eggs? Toast?'

'Just - just toast, thanks,' said Har­ry.

Lupin glanced at Har­ry, then said to Tonks, 'What were you say­ing about Scrim­geour?'

'Oh… yeah… well, we need to be a bit more care­ful, he's been ask­ing Kmgs­ley and me fun­ny ques­tions…'

Har­ry felt vague­ly grate­ful that he was not re­quired to join in the con­ver­sa­tion. His in­sides were squirm­ing. Mrs. Weasley placed a cou­ple of pieces of toast and mar­malade in front of him; he tried to eat, but it was like chew­ing car­pet. Mrs. Weasley sat down on his oth­er side and start­ed fuss­ing with his T-​shirt, tuck­ing in the la­bel and smooth­ing out the creas­es across his shoul­ders. He wished she wouldn't.

'… and I'll have to tell Dum­ble­dore I can't do night du­ty to­mor­row, I'm just't -1 - too tired,' Tonks fin­ished, yawn­ing huge­ly again.

I'll cov­er for you,' said Mr Weasley. 'I'm OK, I've got a re­port to fin­ish any­way

Mr Weasley was not wear­ing wiz­ards' robes but a pair of pin­striped trousers and an old bomber jack­et. He turned from Tonks to Har­ry.

'How are you feel­ing?'

Har­ry shrugged.

'It'll all be over soon,' Mr Weasley said brac­ing­ly. Tn a few hours' time you'll be cleared.'

Har­ry said noth­ing.

The hear­ing's on my floor, in Amelia Bones's of­fice. She's Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, and the one who'll be ques­tion­ing you.'

'Amelia Bones is OK, Har­ry,' said Tonks earnest­ly. 'She's fair, she'll hear you out.'

Har­ry nod­ded, still un­able to think of any­thing to say.

'Don't lose your tem­per,' said Sir­ius abrupt­ly. 'Be po­lite and stick to the facts.'

Har­ry nod­ded again.

The law's on your side,' said Lupin qui­et­ly. 'Even un­der­age wiz­ards are al­lowed to use mag­ic in life-​threat­en­ing sit­ua­tions.'

Some­thing very cold trick­led down the back of Har­rys neck; for a mo­ment he thought some­one was putting a Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm on him, then he re­alised that Mrs. Weasley was at­tack­ing his hair with a wet comb. She pressed hard on the top of his head.

'Doesn't it ev­er lie flat?' she said des­per­ate­ly.

Har­ry shook his head.

Mr Weasley checked his watch and looked up at Har­ry.

'I think we'll go now,' he said. 'We're a bit ear­ly but I think you'll be bet­ter off at the Min­istry than hang­ing around here.'

'OK,' said Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly, drop­ping his toast and get­ting to his feet.

'You'll be all right, Har­ry,' said Tonks, pat­ting him on the arm.

'Good luck,' said Lupin. 'I'm sure it will be fine.'

'And if it's not,' said Sir­ius grim­ly 'I'll see to Amelia Bones for you…'

Har­ry smiled weak­ly. Mrs. Weasley hugged him.

'We've all got our fin­gers crossed,' she said.

'Right,' said Har­ry. 'Well… see you lat­er then.'

He fol­lowed Mr Weasley up­stairs and along the hall. He could hear Sir­ius's moth­er grunt­ing in her sleep be­hind her cur­tains. Mr Weasley un­bolt­ed the door and they stepped out in­to the cold, grey dawn.

'You don't nor­mal­ly walk to work, do you?' Har­ry asked him, as they set off briskly around the square.

'No, I usu­al­ly Ap­pa­rate,' said Mr Weasley, 'but ob­vi­ous­ly you can't, and I think it's best we ar­rive in a thor­ough­ly non-​mag­ical fash­ion… makes a bet­ter im­pres­sion, giv­en what you're be­ing dis­ci­plined for…'

Mr Weasley kept his hand in­side his jack­et as they walked. Har­ry knew it was clenched around his wand. The run-​down streets were al­most de­sert­ed, but when they ar­rived at the mis­er­able lit­tle un­der­ground sta­tion they found it al­ready full of ear­ly-​morn­ing com­muters. As ev­er when he found him­self in close prox­im­ity to

Mug­gles go­ing about their dai­ly busi­ness, Mr Weasley was hard put to con­tain his en­thu­si­asm.

'Sim­ply fab­ulous,' he whis­pered, in­di­cat­ing the au­to­mat­ic tick­et ma­chines. 'Won­der­ful­ly in­ge­nious.'

They're out of or­der,' said Har­ry, point­ing at the sign.

'Yes, but even so…' said Mr Weasley, beam­ing at them fond­ly

They bought their tick­ets in­stead from a sleepy-​look­ing guard (Har­ry han­dled the trans­ac­tion, as Mr Weasley was not very good with Mug­gle mon­ey) and five min­utes lat­er they were board­ing an un­der­ground train that rat­tled them off to­wards the cen­tre of Lon­don. Mr Weasley kept anx­ious­ly check­ing and re-​check­ing the Un­der­ground Map above the win­dows.

'Four more stops, Har­ry… Three stops left now… Two stops to go, Har­ry…'

They got off at a sta­tion in the very heart of Lon­don, and were swept from the train in a tide of be­suit­ed men and wom­en car­ry­ing brief­cas­es. Up the es­ca­la­tor they went, through the tick­et bar­ri­er (Mr Weasley de­light­ed with the way the stile swal­lowed his tick­et), and emerged on to a broad street lined with im­pos­ing-​look­ing build­ings and al­ready full of traf­fic.

'Where are we?' said Mr Weasley blankly, and for one heart-​stop­ping mo­ment Har­ry thought they had got off at the wrong sta­tion de­spite Mr Weasley's con­tin­ual ref­er­ences to the map; but a sec­ond lat­er he said, 'Ah yes… this way, Har­ry,' and led him down a side road.

'Sor­ry,' he said, 'but I nev­er come by train and it all looks rather dif­fer­ent from a Mug­gle per­spec­tive. As a mat­ter of fact, I've nev­er even used the vis­itors' en­trance be­fore.'

The fur­ther they walked, the small­er and less im­pos­ing the build­ings be­came, un­til fi­nal­ly they reached a street that con­tained sev­er­al rather shab­by-​look­ing of­fices, a pub and an over­flow­ing skip. Har­ry had ex­pect­ed a rather more im­pres­sive lo­ca­tion for the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

'Here we are,' said Mr Weasley bright­ly, point­ing at an old red tele­phone box, which was miss­ing sev­er­al panes of glass and stood be­fore a heav­ily graf­fi­tied wall. 'Af­ter you, Har­ry.'

He opened the tele­phone-​box door.

Har­ry stepped in­side, won­der­ing what on earth this was about. Mr Weasley fold­ed him­self in be­side Har­ry and closed the door. It was a tight fit; Har­ry was jammed against the tele­phone ap­pa­ra­tus, which was hang­ing crooked­ly from the wall as though a van­dal had tried to rip it off. Mr Weasley reached past Har­ry for the re­ceiv­er.

'Mr Weasley, I think this might be out of or­der, too,' Har­ry said.

'No, no, I'm sure it's fine,' said Mr Weasley, hold­ing the re­ceiv­er above his head and peer­ing at the di­al. 'Let's see… six…“ he di­alled the num­ber, 'two… four… and an­oth­er four… and an­oth­er two…”

As the di­al whirred smooth­ly back in­to place, a cool fe­male voice sound­ed in­side the tele­phone box, not from the re­ceiv­er in Mr Weasley's hand, but as loud­ly and plain­ly as though an in­vis­ible wom­an were stand­ing right be­side them.

'Wel­come to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Please state your name and busi­ness.'

'Er…' said Mr Weasley, clear­ly un­cer­tain whether or not he should talk in­to the re­ceiv­er. He com­pro­mised by hold­ing the mouth­piece to his ear, 'Arthur Weasley, Mis­use of Mug­gle Arte­facts Of­fice, here to es­cort Har­ry Pot­ter, who has been asked to at­tend a dis­ci­plinary hear­ing…'

Thank you,' said the cool fe­male voice. 'Vis­itor, please take the badge and at­tach it to the front of your robes.'

There was a click and a rat­tle, and Har­ry saw some­thing slide out of the met­al chute where re­turned coins usu­al­ly ap­peared. He picked it up: it was a square sil­ver badge with Har­ry Pot­ter, Dis­ci­plinary Hear­ing on it. He pinned it to the front of his T-​shirt as the fe­male voice spoke again.

'Vis­itor to the Min­istry, you are re­quired to sub­mit to a search and present your wand for reg­is­tra­tion at the se­cu­ri­ty desk, which is lo­cat­ed at the far end of the Atri­um.'

The floor of the tele­phone box shud­dered. They were sink­ing slow­ly in­to the ground. Har­ry watched ap­pre­hen­sive­ly as the pave­ment seemed to rise up past the glass win­dows of the tele­phone box un­til dark­ness closed over their heads. Then he could see noth­ing at all; he could hear on­ly a dull grind­ing noise as the tele-​phone box made its way down through the earth. Af­ter about a minute, though it felt much longer to Har­ry, a chink of gold­en light il­lu­mi­nat­ed his feet and, widen­ing, rose up his body, un­til it hit him in the face and he had to blink to stop his eyes wa­ter­ing.

The Min­istry of Mag­ic wish­es you a pleas­ant day,' said the wom­an's voice.

The door of the tele­phone box sprang open and Mr Weasley stepped out of it, fol­lowed by Har­ry, whose mouth had fall­en open.

They were stand­ing at one end of a very long and splen­did hall with a high­ly pol­ished, dark wood floor. The pea­cock blue ceil­ing was in­laid with gleam­ing gold­en sym­bols that kept mov­ing and chang­ing like some enor­mous heav­en­ly no­tice­board. The walls on each side were pan­elled in shiny dark wood and had many gild­ed fire­places set in­to them. Ev­ery few sec­onds a witch or wiz­ard would emerge from one of the left-​hand fire­places with a soft whoosh. On the right-​hand side, short queues were form­ing be­fore each fire­place, wait­ing to de­part.

Halfway down the hall was a foun­tain. A group of gold­en stat­ues, larg­er than life-​size, stood in the mid­dle of a cir­cu­lar pool. Tallest of them all was a no­ble-​look­ing wiz­ard with his wand point­ing straight up in the air. Grouped around him were a beau­ti­ful witch, a cen­taur, a gob­lin and a house-​elf. The last three were all look­ing ador­ing­ly up at the witch and wiz­ard. Glit­ter­ing jets of wa­ter were fly­ing from the ends of their wands, the point of the cen­taur's ar­row, the tip of the gob­lins hat and each of the house-​elf's ears, so that the tin­kling hiss of falling wa­ter was added to the pops and cracks of the Ap­pa­ra­tors and the clat­ter of foot­steps as hun­dreds of witch­es and wiz­ards, most of whom were wear­ing glum, ear­ly-​morn­ing looks, strode to­wards a set of gold­en gates at the far end of the hall.

This way,' said Mr Weasley.

They joined the throng, wend­ing their way be­tween the Min­istry work­ers, some of whom were car­ry­ing tot­ter­ing piles of parch­ment, oth­ers bat­tered brief­cas­es; still oth­ers were read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet while they walked. As they passed the foun­tain Har­ry saw sil­ver Sick­les and bronze Knuts glint­ing up at him from the bot­tom of the pool. A small smudged sign be­side it read:

ALL PRO­CEEDS FROM THE FOUN­TAIN OF MAG­ICAL BRETHREN WILL BE GIV­EN TO ST MUN­GO'S HOS­PI­TAL FOR MAG­ICAL MAL­ADIES

AND IN­JURIES.

If I'm not ex­pelled from Hog­warts, I'll put in ten Galleons, Har­ry found him­self think­ing des­per­ate­ly.

'Over here, Har­ry,' said Mr Weasley, and they stepped out of the stream of Min­istry em­ploy­ees head­ing for the gold­en gates. Seat­ed at a desk to the left, be­neath a sign say­ing Se­cu­ri­ty, a bad­ly-​shaven wiz­ard in pea­cock blue robes looked up as they ap­proached and put down his Dai­ly Prophet.

'I'm es­cort­ing a vis­itor,' said Mr Weasley, ges­tur­ing to­wards Har­ry.

'Step over here,' said the wiz­ard in a bored voice.

Har­ry walked clos­er to him and the wiz­ard held up a long gold­en rod, thin and flex­ible as a car aeri­al, and passed it up and down Har­rys front and back.

'Wand,' grunt­ed the se­cu­ri­ty wiz­ard at Har­ry, putting down the gold­en in­stru­ment and hold­ing out his hand.

Har­ry pro­duced his wand. The wiz­ard dropped it on to a strange brass in­stru­ment, which looked some­thing like a set of scales with on­ly one dish. It be­gan to vi­brate. A nar­row strip of parch­ment came speed­ing out of a slit in the base. The wiz­ard tore this off and read the writ­ing on it.

'Eleven inch­es, phoenix-​feath­er core, been in use four years. That cor­rect?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry ner­vous­ly.

'I keep this,' said the wiz­ard, im­pal­ing the slip of parch­ment on a small brass spike. 'You get this back,' he added, thrust­ing the wand at Har­ry.

Thank you.'

'Hang on…' said the wiz­ard slow­ly.

His eyes had dart­ed from the sil­ver vis­itors badge on Har­ry's chest to his fore­head.

Thank you, Er­ic,' said Mr Weasley firm­ly, and grasp­ing Har­ry by the shoul­der he steered him away from the desk and back in­to the stream of wiz­ards and witch­es walk­ing through the gold­en gates.

Jos­tled slight­ly by the crowd, Har­ry fol­lowed Mr Weasley through the gates in­to the small­er hall be­yond, where at least twen­ty lifts stood be­hind wrought gold­en grilles. Har­ry and Mr Weasley joined the crowd around one of them. Near­by, stood a big beard­ed wiz­ard hold­ing a large card­board box which was emit­ting rasp­ing nois­es.

'All right, Arthur?' said the wiz­ard, nod­ding at Mr Weasley.

'What've you got there, Bob?' asked Mr Weasley, look­ing at the box.

'We're not sure,' said the wiz­ard se­ri­ous­ly. 'We thought it was a bog-​stan­dard chick­en un­til it start­ed breath­ing fire. Looks like a se­ri­ous breach of the Ban on Ex­per­imen­tal Breed­ing to me.'

With a great jan­gling and clat­ter­ing a lift de­scend­ed in front of them; the gold­en grille slid back and Har­ry and Mr Weasley stepped in­to the lift with the rest of the crowd and Har­ry found him­self jammed against the back wall. Sev­er­al witch­es and wiz­ards were look­ing at him cu­ri­ous­ly; he stared at his feet to avoid catch­ing any­one's eye, flat­ten­ing his fringe as he did so. The grilles slid shut with a crash and the lift as­cend­ed slow­ly, chains rat­tling, while the same cool fe­male voice Har­ry had heard in the tele­phone box rang out again.

'Lev­el Sev­en, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Games and Sports, in­cor­po­rat­ing the British and Irish Quid­ditch League Head­quar­ters, Of­fi­cial Gob­stones Club and Lu­di­crous Patents Of­fice.'

The lift doors opened. Har­ry glimpsed an un­tidy-​look­ing cor­ri­dor, with var­ious posters of Quid­ditch teams tacked lop­sid­ed­ly on the walls. One of the wiz­ards in the lift, who was car­ry­ing an arm­ful of broom­sticks, ex­tri­cat­ed him­self with dif­fi­cul­ty and dis­ap­peared down the cor­ri­dor. The doors closed, the lift jud­dered up­wards again and the wom­an's voice an­nounced:

'Lev­el Six, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Trans­porta­tion, in­cor­po­rat­ing the Floo Net­work Au­thor­ity, Broom Reg­ula­to­ry Con­trol, Portkey Of­fice and Ap­pa­ra­tion Test Cen­tre.'

Once again the lift doors opened and four or five witch­es and wiz­ards got out; at the same time, sev­er­al pa­per aero­planes swooped in­to the lift. Har­ry stared up at them as they flapped idly around above his head; they were a pale vi­olet colour and he could see Min­istry of Mag­ic stamped along the edge of their wings.

'Just in­ter-​de­part­men­tal mem­os,' Mr Weasley mut­tered to him. 'We used to use owls, but the mess was un­be­liev­able… drop­pings all over the desks…'

As they clat­tered up­wards again the mem­os flapped around ihe lamp sway­ing from the lift's ceil­ing.

'Lev­el Five, De­part­ment of In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Co-​op­er­ation, in­cor­po­rat­ing the In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Trad­ing Stan­dards Body, the In­ter­na­tion­al Mag­ical Of­fice of Law and the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards, British Seats.'

When the doors opened, two of the mem­os zoomed out with a few more of the witch­es and wiz­ards, but sev­er­al more mem­os zoomed in, so that the light from the lamp flick­ered and flashed over­head as they dart­ed around it.

'Lev­el Four, De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures, in­cor­po­rat­ing Beast, Be­ing and Spir­it Di­vi­sions, Gob­lin Li­ai­son Of­fice and Pest Ad­vi­so­ry Bu­reau.'

'S'cuse,' said the wiz­ard car­ry­ing the fire-​breath­ing chick­en and he left the lift pur­sued by a lit­tle flock of mem­os. The doors clanged shut yet again.

'Lev­el Three, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Ac­ci­dents and Catas­tro­phes, in­clud­ing the Ac­ci­den­tal Mag­ic Re­ver­sal Squad, Oblivi­ator Head­quar­ters and Mug­gle-​Wor­thy Ex­cuse Com­mit­tee.'

Ev­ery­body left the lift on this floor ex­cept Mr Weasley, Har­ry and a witch who was read­ing an ex­treme­ly long piece of parch­ment that was trail­ing on the floor. The re­main­ing mem­os con­tin­ued to soar around the lamp as the lift jud­dered up­wards again, then the doors opened and the voice made its an­nounce­ment.

'Lev­el Two, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, in­clud­ing the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice, Au­ror Head­quar­ters and Wiz­eng­amot Ad­min­is­tra­tion Ser­vices.'

This is us, Har­ry,' said Mr Weasley, and they fol­lowed the witch out of the lift in­to a cor­ri­dor lined with doors. 'My of­fice is on the oth­er side of the floor.'

'Mr Weasley' said Har­ry, as they passed a win­dow through which sun­light was stream­ing, 'aren't we still un­der­ground?'

'Yes, we are,' said Mr Weasley. Those are en­chant­ed win­dows. Mag­ical Main­te­nance de­cide what weath­er we'll get ev­ery day. We had two months of hur­ri­canes last time they were an­gling for a pay rise… Just round here, Har­ry.'

They turned a cor­ner, walked through a pair of heavy oak doors and emerged in a clut­tered open area di­vid­ed in­to cu­bi­cles, which was buzzing with talk and laugh­ter. Mem­os were zoom­ing in and out of cu­bi­cles like minia­ture rock­ets. A lop­sid­ed sign on the near­est cu­bi­cle read: Au­ror Head­quar­ters.

Har­ry looked sur­rep­ti­tious­ly through the door­ways as they passed. The Au­rors had cov­ered their cu­bi­cle walls with ev­ery­thing from pic­tures of want­ed wiz­ards and pho­tographs of their fam­ilies, to posters of their favourite Quid­ditch teams and ar­ti­cles Irom the Dai­ly Prophet. A scar­let-​robed man with a pony­tail longer than Bill's was sit­ting with his boots up on his desk, dic­tat­ing a re­port to his quill. A lit­tle fur­ther along, a witch with a patch over one eye was talk­ing over the top of her cu­bi­cle wall to Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt.

'Morn­ing, Weasley,' said Kings­ley care­less­ly, as they drew near­er. 'I've been want­ing a word with you, have you got a sec­ond?'

'Yes, if it re­al­ly is a sec­ond,' said Mr Weasley, "I'm in rather a hur­ry.'

They were talk­ing as though they hard­ly knew each oth­er and when Har­ry opened his mouth to say hel­lo to Kings­ley, Mr Weasley stood on his foot. They fol­lowed Kings­ley along the row and in­to the very last cu­bi­cle.

Har­ry re­ceived a slight shock; blink­ing down at him from ev­ery di­rec­tion was Sir­ius's face. News­pa­per cut­tings and old pho­tographs - even the one of Sir­ius be­ing best man at the Pot­ters' wed­ding -pa­pered the walls. The on­ly Sir­ius-​free space was a map of the world in which lit­tle red pins were glow­ing like jew­els.

'Here,' said Kings­ley brusque­ly to Mr Weasley, shov­ing a sheaf of parch­ment in­to his hand. 'I need as much in­for­ma­tion as pos­si­ble on fly­ing Mug­gle ve­hi­cles sight­ed in the last twelve months. We've re­ceived in­for­ma­tion that Black might still be us­ing his old mo­tor­cy­cle.'

Kings­ley tipped Har­ry an enor­mous wink and added, in a whis­per, 'Give him the mag­azine, he might find it in­ter­est­ing.' Then he said in nor­mal tones, 'And don't take too long, Weasley, the de­lay on that firelegs re­port held our in­ves­ti­ga­tion up for a month.'

'If you had read my re­port you would know that the term is

firearms,' said Mr Weasley cool­ly. 'And I'm afraid you'll have to wait for in­for­ma­tion on mo­tor­cy­cles; we're ex­treme­ly busy at the mo­ment.' He dropped his voice and said, 'If you can get away be­fore sev­en, Mol­ly's mak­ing meat­balls.'

He beck­oned to Har­ry and led him out of Kings­ley's cu­bi­cle, through a sec­ond set of oak doors, in­to an­oth­er pas­sage, turned left, marched along an­oth­er cor­ri­dor, turned right in­to a dim­ly lit and dis­tinct­ly shab­by cor­ri­dor, and fi­nal­ly reached a dead end, where a door on the left stood ajar, re­veal­ing a broom cup­board, and a door on the right bore a tar­nished brass plaque read­ing: Mis­use of Mug­gle Arte­facts.

Mr Weasley's dingy of­fice seemed to be slight­ly small­er than the broom cup­board. Two desks had been crammed in­side it and there was bare­ly space to move around them be­cause of all the over­flow­ing fil­ing cab­inets lin­ing the walls, on top of which were tot­ter­ing piles of files. The lit­tle wall space avail­able bore wit­ness to Mr Weasley's ob­ses­sions: sev­er­al posters of cars, in­clud­ing one of a dis­man­tled en­gine; two il­lus­tra­tions of post­box­es he seemed to have cut out of Mug­gle chil­dren's books; and a di­agram show­ing how to wire a plug.

Sit­ting on top of Mr Weasley's over­flow­ing in-​tray was an old toast­er that was hic­cough­ing in a dis­con­so­late way and a pair of emp­ty leather gloves that were twid­dling their thumbs. A pho­to­graph of the Weasley fam­ily stood be­side the in-​tray. Har­ry no­ticed that Per­cy ap­peared to have walked out of it.

'We haven't got a win­dow,' said Mr Weasley apolo­get­ical­ly, tak­ing off his bomber jack­et and plac­ing it on the back of his chair. 'We've asked, but they don't seem to think we need one. Have a seat, Har­ry, doesn't look as if Perkins is in yet.'

Har­ry squeezed him­self in­to the chair be­hind Perkins's desk while Mr Weasley rif­fled through the sheaf of parch­ment Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt had giv­en him.

'Ah,' he said, grin­ning, as he ex­tract­ed a copy of a mag­azine en­ti­tled The Quib­bler from its midst, 'yes…' He flicked through it. 'Yes, he's right, I'm sure Si­nus will find that very amus­ing - oh dear, what's this now?'

A memo had just zoomed in through the open door and flut­tered to rest on top of the hic­cough­ing toast­er. Mr Weasley un­fold­ed it and read it aloud.

'Third re­gur­gi­tat­ing pub­lic toi­let re­port­ed in Beth­nal Green, kind­ly in­ves­ti­gate im­me­di­ate­ly." This is get­ting ridicu­lous…'

'A re­gur­gi­tat­ing toi­let?'

'An­ti-​Mug­gle pranksters,' said Mr Weasley, frown­ing. 'We had two last week, one in Wim­ble­don, one in Ele­phant and Cas­tle. Mug­gles are pulling the flush and in­stead of ev­ery­thing dis­ap­pear­ing - well, you can imag­ine. The poor things keep call­ing in those - pum­bles, I think they're called - you know, the ones who mend pipes and things.'

'Plumbers?'

'Ex­act­ly, yes, but of course they're flum­moxed. I on­ly hope we can catch who­ev­er's do­ing it.'

'Will it be Au­rors who catch them?'

'Oh no, this is too triv­ial for Au­rors, it'll be the or­di­nary Mag­ical Law En­force­ment Pa­trol - ah, Har­ry, this is Perkins.'

A stooped, timid-​look­ing old wiz­ard with fluffy white hair had just en­tered the room, pant­ing.

'Oh, Arthur!' he said des­per­ate­ly, with­out look­ing at Har­ry. Thank good­ness, I didn't know what to do for the best, whether to wait here for you or not. I've just sent an owl to your home but you've ob­vi­ous­ly missed it - an ur­gent mes­sage came ten min­utes ago -'

'I know about the re­gur­gi­tat­ing toi­let,' said Mr Weasley.

'No, no, it's not the toi­let, it's the Pot­ter boy's hear­ing - they've changed the time and venue - it starts at eight o'clock now and it's down in old Court­room Ten -'

'Down in old - but they told me - Mer­lin's beard!'

Mr Weasley looked at his watch, let out a yelp and leapt from his chair.

'Quick, Har­ry, we should have been there five min­utes ago!'

Perkins flat­tened him­self against the fil­ing cab­inets as Mr Weasley left the of­fice at a run, Har­ry close on his heels.

'Why have they changed the time?' Har­ry said breath­less­ly, as they hur­tled past the Au­ror cu­bi­cles; peo­ple poked out their heads and stared as they streaked past. Har­ry felt as though he'd left all his in­sides back at Perkins's desk.

I've no idea, but thank good­ness we got here so ear­ly, if you'd missed it, it would have been catas­troph­ic!'

Mr Weasley skid­ded to a halt be­side the lifts and jabbed im­pa­tient­ly at the 'down' but­ton.

'Come ON!'

The lift clat­tered in­to view and they hur­ried in­side. Ev­ery time it stopped Mr Weasley cursed fu­ri­ous­ly and pum­melled the num­ber nine but­ton.

Those court­rooms haven't been used in years,' said Mr Weasley an­gri­ly. 'I can't think why they're do­ing it down there - un­less -but no -'

A plump witch car­ry­ing a smok­ing gob­let en­tered the lift at that mo­ment, and Mr Weasley did not elab­orate.

The Atri­um,' said the cool fe­male voice and the gold­en grilles slid open, show­ing Har­ry a dis­tant glimpse of the gold­en stat­ues in the foun­tain. The plump witch got out and a sal­low-​skinned wiz­ard with a very mourn­ful face got in.

'Morn­ing, Arthur,' he said in a sepul­chral voice as the lift be­gan to de­scend. 'Don't of­ten see you down here.'

'Ur­gent busi­ness, Bode,' said Mr Weasley, who was bounc­ing on the balls of his feet and throw­ing anx­ious looks over at Har­ry.

'Ah, yes,' said Bode, sur­vey­ing Har­ry un­blink­ing­ly. 'Of course.'

Har­ry bare­ly had emo­tion to spare for Bode, but his un­fal­ter­ing gaze did not make him feel any more com­fort­able.

'De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies,' said the cool fe­male voice, and left it at that.

'Quick, Har­ry,' said Mr Weasley as the lift doors rat­tled open, and they sped up a cor­ri­dor that was quite dif­fer­ent from those above. The walls were bare; there were no win­dows and no doors apart from a plain black one set at the very end of the cor­ri­dor. Har­ry ex­pect­ed them to go through it, but in­stead Mr Weasley seized him by the arm and dragged him to the left, where there was an open­ing lead­ing to a flight of steps.

'Down here, down here,' pant­ed Mr Weasley, tak­ing two steps at a time. The lift doesn't even come down this far… why they're do­ing it down there I…'

They reached the bot­tom of the steps and ran along yet an­oth­er cor­ri­dor, which bore a great re­sem­blance to the one that led to Snape's dun­geon at Hog­warts, with rough stone walls and torch­es in brack­ets. The doors they passed here were heavy wood­en ones with iron bolts and key­holes.

'Court­room… Ten… I think… we're near­ly… yes.'

Mr Weasley stum­bled to a halt out­side a grimy dark door with an im­mense iron lock and slumped against the wall, clutch­ing at a stitch in his chest.

'Go on,' he pant­ed, point­ing his thumb at the door. 'Get in there.'

'Aren't - aren't you com­ing with -?'

'No, no, I'm not al­lowed. Good luck!'

Har­ry's heart was beat­ing a vi­olent tat­too against his Adam's ap­ple. He swal­lowed hard, turned the heavy iron door han­dle and stepped in­side the court­room.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 8 - The Hearing


Har­ry gasped; he could not help him­self. The large dun­geon he had en­tered was hor­ri­bly fa­mil­iar. He had not on­ly seen it be­fore, he had been here be­fore. This was the place he had vis­it­ed in­side Dum­ble­dore's Pen­sieve, the place where he had watched the Lestranges sen­tenced to life im­pris­on­ment in Azk­aban.

The walls were made of dark stone, dim­ly lit by torch­es. Emp­ty bench­es rose on ei­ther side of him, but ahead, in the high­est bench­es of all, were many shad­owy fig­ures. They had been talk­ing in low voic­es, but as the heavy door swung closed be­hind Har­ry an omi­nous si­lence fell.

A cold male voice rang across the court­room.

'You're late.'

'Sor­ry,' said Har­ry ner­vous­ly 'I — I didn't know the time had been changed.'

That is not the Wiz­eng­amot's fault,' said the voice. 'An owl was sent to you this morn­ing. Take your seat.'

Har­ry dropped his gaze to the chair in the cen­tre of the room, the arms of which were cov­ered in chains. He had seen those chains spring to life and bind who­ev­er sat be­tween them. His foot­steps echoed loud­ly as he walked across the stone floor. When he sat gin­ger­ly on the edge of the chair the chains clinked threat­en­ing­ly, but did not bind him. Feel­ing rather sick, he looked up at the peo­ple seat­ed at the bench above.

There were about fifty of them, all, as far as he could see, wear­ing plum-​coloured robes with an elab­orate­ly worked sil­ver 'W on the left-​hand side of the chest and all star­ing down their noses at him, some with very aus­tere ex­pres­sions, oth­ers looks of frank cu­rios­ity.

THE HE A RING

In the very mid­dle of the front row sat Cor­nelius Fudge, the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic. Fudge was a port­ly man who of­ten sport­ed a lime-​green bowler hat, though to­day he had dis­pensed with it; he had dis­pensed, too, with the in­dul­gent smile he had once worn when he spoke to Har­ry. A broad, square-​jawed witch with very short grey hair sat on Fudge's left; she wore a mon­ocle and looked for­bid­ding. On Fudge's right was an­oth­er witch, but she was sit­ting so far back on the bench that her face was in shad­ow.

'Very well,' said Fudge. The ac­cused be­ing present - fi­nal­ly -let us be­gin. Are you ready?' he called down the row.

'Yes, sir,' said an ea­ger voice Har­ry knew. Ron's broth­er Per­cy was sit­ting at the very end of the front bench. Har­ry looked at Per­cy, ex­pect­ing some sign of recog­ni­tion from him, but none came. Per­cy's eyes, be­hind his horn-​rimmed glass­es, were fixed on his parch­ment, a quill poised in his hand.

'Dis­ci­plinary hear­ing of the twelfth of Au­gust,' said Fudge in a ring­ing voice, and Per­cy be­gan tak­ing notes at once, 'in­to of­fences com­mit­ted un­der the De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery and the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy by Har­ry James Pot­ter, res­ident at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, Lit­tle Whing­ing, Sur­rey.

'In­ter­roga­tors: Cor­nelius Os­wald Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic; Amelia Su­san Bones, Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment; Do­lores Jane Um­bridge, Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter. Court Scribe, Per­cy Ig­natius Weasley -'

'Wit­ness for the de­fence, Al­bus Per­ci­val Wul­fric Bri­an Dum­ble-​dore,' said a qui­et voice from be­hind Har­ry, who turned his head so fast he cricked his neck.

Dum­ble­dore was strid­ing serene­ly across the room wear­ing long mid­night-​blue robes and a per­fect­ly calm ex­pres­sion. His long sil­ver beard and hair gleamed in the torch­light as he drew lev­el with Har­ry and looked up at Fudge through the half-​moon spec­ta­cles that rest­ed halfway down his very crooked nose.

The mem­bers of the Wiz­eng­amot were mut­ter­ing. All eyes were now on Dum­ble­dore. Some looked an­noyed, oth­ers slight­ly fright­ened; two el­der­ly witch­es in the back row, how­ev­er, raised their hands and waved in wel­come.

A pow­er­ful emo­tion had risen in Har­ry's chest at the sight of Dum­ble­dore, a for­ti­fied, hope­ful feel­ing rather like that which phoenix song gave him. He want­ed to catch Dum­ble­dore's eye, but Dum­ble­dore was not look­ing his way; he was con­tin­uing to look up at the ob­vi­ous­ly flus­tered Fudge.

'Ah,' said Fudge, who looked thor­ough­ly dis­con­cert­ed. 'Dum­ble­dore. Yes. You - er - got our - er - mes­sage that the time and -er - place of the hear­ing had been changed, then?'

'I must have missed it,' said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly. 'How­ev­er, due to a lucky mis­take I ar­rived at the Min­istry three hours ear­ly, so no harm done.'

'Yes - well - I sup­pose we'll need an­oth­er chair - I - Weasley, could you -?'

'Not to wor­ry, not to wor­ry,' said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly; he took out his wand, gave it a lit­tle flick, and a squashy chintz arm­chair ap­peared out of nowhere next to Har­ry. Dum­ble­dore sat down, put the tips of his long fin­gers to­geth­er and sur­veyed Fudge over them with an ex­pres­sion of po­lite in­ter­est. The Wiz­eng­amot was still mut­ter­ing and fid­get­ing rest­less­ly; on­ly when Fudge spoke again did they set­tle down.

'Yes,' said Fudge again, shuf­fling his notes. 'Well, then. So. The charges. Yes.'

He ex­tri­cat­ed a piece of parch­ment from the pile be­fore him, took a deep breath, and read out, The charges against the ac­cused are as fol­lows:

That he did know­ing­ly, de­lib­er­ate­ly and in full aware­ness of the il­le­gal­ity of his ac­tions, hav­ing re­ceived a pre­vi­ous writ­ten warn­ing from the Min­istry of Mag­ic on a sim­ilar charge, pro­duce a Pa­tronus Charm in a Mug­gle-​in­hab­it­ed area, in the pres­ence of a Mug­gle, on the sec­ond of Au­gust at twen­ty-​three min­utes past nine, which con­sti­tutes an of­fence un­der Para­graph C of the De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery, 1875, and al­so un­der Sec­tion 13 of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of War­locks' Statute of Se­cre­cy.

'You are Har­ry James Pot­ter, of num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, Lit­tle Whing­ing, Sur­rey?' Fudge said, glar­ing at Har­ry over the top of his parch­ment.

'Yes,' Har­ry said.

'You re­ceived an of­fi­cial warn­ing from the Min­istry for us­ing il­le­gal mag­ic three years ago, did you not?'

'Yes, but -'

'And yet you con­jured a Pa­tronus on the night of the sec­ond of Au­gust?' said Fudge.

'Yes,' said Har­ry, 'but -'

'Know­ing that you are not per­mit­ted to use mag­ic out­side school while you are un­der the age of sev­en­teen?'

'Yes, but -'

'Know­ing that you were in an area full of Mug­gles?'

'Yes, but -'

'Ful­ly aware that you were in close prox­im­ity to a Mug­gle at the time?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly, 'but I on­ly used it be­cause we were -'

The witch with the mon­ocle cut across him in a boom­ing voice.

'You pro­duced a ful­ly-​fledged Pa­tronus?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry, 'be­cause -'

'A cor­po­re­al Pa­tronus?'

'A - what?' said Har­ry.

'Your Pa­tronus had a clear­ly de­fined form? I mean to say, it was more than vapour or smoke?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry, feel­ing both im­pa­tient and slight­ly des­per­ate, 'it's a stag, it's al­ways a stag.'

'Al­ways?' boomed Madam Bones. 'You have pro­duced a Pa­tronus be­fore now?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry, 'I've been do­ing it for over a year.'

'And you are fif­teen years old?'

'Yes, and -'

'You learned this at school?'

'Yes, Pro­fes­sor Lupin taught me in my third year, be­cause of the -'

'Im­pres­sive,' said Madam Bones, star­ing down at him, 'a true Pa­tronus at his age… very im­pres­sive in­deed.'

Some of the wiz­ards and witch­es around her were mut­ter­ing again; a few nod­ded, but oth­ers were frown­ing and shak­ing their heads.

'It's not a ques­tion of how im­pres­sive the mag­ic was,' said Fudge in a testy voice, 'in fact, the more im­pres­sive the worse it is, I would have thought, giv­en that the boy did it in plain view of a Mug­gle!'

Those who had been frown­ing now mur­mured in agree­ment, but it was the sight of Per­cy's sanc­ti­mo­nious lit­tle nod that goad­ed Har­ry in­to speech.

'I did it be­cause of the De­men­tors!' he said loud­ly, be­fore any­one could in­ter­rupt him again.

He had ex­pect­ed more mut­ter­ing, but the si­lence that fell seemed to be some­how denser than be­fore.

'De­men­tors?' said Madam Bones af­ter a mo­ment, her thick eye­brows ris­ing un­til her mon­ocle looked in dan­ger of falling out. 'What do you mean, boy?'

'I mean there were two De­men­tors down that al­ley­way and they went for me and my cousin!'

'Ah,' said Fudge again, smirk­ing un­pleas­ant­ly as he looked around at the Wiz­eng­amot, as though invit­ing them to share the joke. 'Yes. Yes, I thought we'd be hear­ing some­thing like this.'

'De­men­tors in Lit­tle Whing­ing?' Madam Bones said, in a tone of great sur­prise. 'I don't un­der­stand -'

'Don't you, Amelia?' said Fudge, still smirk­ing. 'Let me ex­plain. He's been think­ing it through and de­cid­ed De­men­tors would make a very nice lit­tle cov­er sto­ry, very nice in­deed. Mug­gles can't see De­men­tors, can they, boy? High­ly con­ve­nient, high­ly con­ve­nient… so it's just your word and no wit­ness­es…'

'I'm not ly­ing!' said Har­ry loud­ly, over an­oth­er out­break of mut­ter­ing from the court. There were two of them, com­ing from op­po­site ends of the al­ley, ev­ery­thing went dark and cold and my cousin felt them and ran for it -'

'Enough, enough!' said Fudge, with a very su­per­cil­ious look on his face. 'I'm sor­ry to in­ter­rupt what I'm sure would have been a very well-​re­hearsed sto­ry -'

Dum­ble­dore cleared his throat. The Wiz­eng­amot fell silent again.

'We do, in fact, have a wit­ness to the pres­ence of De­men­tors in that al­ley­way,' he said, 'oth­er than Dud­ley Durs­ley, I mean.'

Fudge's plump face seemed to slack­en, as though some­body had let air out of it. He stared down at Dum­ble­dore for a mo­ment or two, then, with the ap­pear­ance of a man pulling him­self back to­geth­er, said, 'We haven't got time to lis­ten to more tar­ra­did­dles, I'm afraid, Dum­ble­dore. I want this dealt with quick­ly -'

'I may be wrong,' said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly, 'but I am sure that un­der the Wiz­eng­amot Char­ter of Rights, the ac­cused has the right to present wit­ness­es for his or her case? Isn't that the pol­icy of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, Madam Bones?' he con­tin­ued, ad­dress­ing the witch in the mon­ocle.

'True,' said Madam Bones. 'Per­fect­ly true.'

'Oh, very well, very well,' snapped Fudge. 'Where is this per­son?'

'I brought her with me,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'She's just out­side the door. Should I -?'

'No — Weasley, you go,' Fudge barked at Per­cy, who got up at once, ran down the stone steps from the judge's bal­cony and hur­ried past Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry with­out glanc­ing at them.

A mo­ment lat­er, Per­cy re­turned, fol­lowed by Mrs. Figg. She looked scared and more bat­ty than ev­er. Har­ry wished she had thought to change out of her car­pet slip­pers.

Dum­ble­dore stood up and gave Mrs. Figg his chair, con­jur­ing a sec­ond one for him­self.

'Full name?' said Fudge loud­ly, when Mrs. Figg had perched her­self ner­vous­ly on the very edge of her seal.

'Ara­bel­la Doreen Figg,' said Mrs. Figg in her qua­very voice.

'And who ex­act­ly are you?' said Fudge, in a bored and lofty voice.

'I'm a res­ident of Lit­tle Whing­ing, close to where Har­ry Pot­ter lives,' said Mrs. Figg.

'We have no record of any witch or wiz­ard liv­ing in Lit­tle Whing­ing, oth­er than Har­ry Pot­ter,' said Madam Bones at once. That sit­ua­tion has al­ways been close­ly mon­itored, giv­en… giv­en past events.'

'I'm a Squib,' said Mrs. Figg. 'So you wouldn't have me reg­is­tered, would you?'

'A Squib, eh?' said Fudge, eye­ing her close­ly. 'We'll be check­ing that. You'll leave de­tails of your parent­age with my as­sis­tant Weasley. In­ci­den­tal­ly, can Squibs see De­men­tors?' he added, look­ing left and right along the bench.

'Yes, we can!' said Mrs. Figg in­dig­nant­ly.

Fudge looked back down at her, his eye­brows raised. 'Very well,' he said aloofly. 'What is your sto­ry?'

'I had gone out to buy cat food from the cor­ner shop at the end of Wis­te­ria Walk, around about nine o'clock, on the evening of the sec­ond of Au­gust,' gab­bled Mrs. Figg at once, as though she had learned what she was say­ing by heart, 'when I heard a dis­tur­bance down the al­ley­way be­tween Mag­no­lia Cres­cent and Wis­te­ria Walk. On ap­proach­ing the mouth of the al­ley­way I saw De­men­tors run­ning -'

'Run­ning?' said Madam Bones sharply. 'De­men­tors don't run, they glide.'

That's what I meant to say,' said Mrs. Figg quick­ly, patch­es of pink ap­pear­ing in her with­ered cheeks. 'Glid­ing along the al­ley to­wards what looked like two boys.'

'What did they look like?' said Madam Bones, nar­row­ing her eyes so that the edge of the mon­ocle dis­ap­peared in­to her flesh.

'Well, one was very large and the oth­er one rather skin­ny -'

'No, no,' said Madam Bones im­pa­tient­ly. 'The De­men­tors… de­scribe them.'

'Oh,1 said Mrs. Figg, the pink flush creep­ing up her neck now. They were big. Big and wear­ing cloaks.'

Har­ry felt a hor­ri­ble sink­ing in the pit of his stom­ach. What­ev­er Mrs. Figg might say, it sound­ed to him as though the most she had ev­er seen was a pic­ture of a De­men­tor, and a pic­ture could nev­er con­vey the truth of what these be­ings were like: the eerie way they moved, hov­er­ing inch­es over the ground; or the rot­ting smell of them; or that ter­ri­ble rat­tling noise they made as they sucked on the sur­round­ing air…

In the sec­ond row, a dumpy wiz­ard with a large black mous­tache leaned close to whis­per in the ear of his neigh­bour, a frizzy-​haired witch. She smirked and nod­ded.

'Big and wear­ing cloaks,' re­peat­ed Madam Bones cool­ly, while Fudge snort­ed de­ri­sive­ly. 'I see. Any­thing else?'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Figg. 'I felt them. Ev­ery­thing went cold, and this was a very warm sum­mer's night, mark you. And I felt… as though all hap­pi­ness had gone from the world… and I re­mem­bered… dread­ful things…'

Her voice shook and died.

Madam Bones's eyes widened slight­ly. Har­ry could see red marks un­der her eye­brow where the mon­ocle had dug in­to it.

'What did the De­men­tors do?' she asked, and Har­ry felt a rush of hope.

They went for the boys,' said Mrs. Figg, her voice stronger and more con­fi­dent now, the pink flush ebbing away from her face. 'One of them had fall­en. The oth­er was back­ing away, try­ing to re­pel the De­men­tor. That was Har­ry. He tried twice and pro­duced on­ly sil­ver vapour. On the third at­tempt, he pro­duced a Pa­tronus, which charged down the first De­men­tor and then, with his en­cour­age­ment, chased the sec­ond one away from his cousin. And that that is what hap­pened,' Mrs. Figg fin­ished, some­what lame­ly.

Madam Bones looked down at Mrs. Figg in si­lence. Fudge was not look­ing at her at all, but fid­get­ing with his pa­pers. Fi­nal­ly, he raised his eyes and said, rather ag­gres­sive­ly, That's what you saw, is it?'

That is what hap­pened,' Mrs. Figg re­peat­ed.

'Very well,' said Fudge. 'You may go.'

Mrs. Figg cast a fright­ened look from Fudge to Dum­ble­dore, then got up and shuf­fled otf to­wards the door. Har­ry heard it thud shut be­hind her.

'Not a very con­vinc­ing wit­ness,' said Fudge lofti­ly.

'Oh, I don't know,' said Madam Bones, in her boom­ing voice. 'She cer­tain­ly de­scribed the ef­fects of a De­men­tor at­tack very ac­cu­rate­ly. And I can't imag­ine why she would say they were there if they weren't.'

'But De­men­tors wan­der­ing in­to a Mug­gle sub­urb and just hap­pen­ing to come across a wiz­ard?' snort­ed Fudge. The odds on that must be very, very long. Even Bag­man wouldn't have bet -'

'Oh, I don't think any of us be­lieve the De­men­tors were there by co­in­ci­dence,' said Dum­ble­dore light­ly.

The witch sit­ting to the right of Fudge, with her face in shad­ow, moved slight­ly but ev­ery­one else was quite still and silent.

And what is that sup­posed to mean?' Fudge asked ici­ly.

'It means that I think they were or­dered there,' said Dum­ble­dore.

'I think we might have a record of it if some­one had or­dered a pair of De­men­tors to go strolling through Lit­tle Whang­ing!' barked Fudge.

'Not if the De­men­tors are tak­ing or­ders from some­one oth­er than the Min­istry of Mag­ic these days,' said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. 'I have al­ready giv­en you my views on this mat­ter, Cor­nelius.'

'Yes, you have,' said Fudge force­ful­ly, 'and I have no rea­son to be­lieve that your views are any­thing oth­er than bilge, Dum­ble­dore. The De­men­tors re­main in place in Azk­aban and are do­ing ev­ery­thing we ask them to.'

Then,' said Dum­ble­dore, qui­et­ly but clear­ly, 'we must ask our­selves why some­body with­in the Min­istry or­dered a pair of De­men­tors in­to that al­ley­way on the sec­ond of Au­gust.'

In the com­plete si­lence that greet­ed these words, the witch to the right of Fudge leaned for­wards so that Har­ry saw her for the first time.

He thought she looked just like a large, pale toad. She was rather squat with a broad, flab­by face, as lit­tle neck as Un­cle Ver­non and a very wide, slack mouth. Her eyes were large, round and slight­ly bulging. Even the lit­tle black vel­vet bow perched on top of her short curly hair put him in mind of a large fly she was about to catch on a long sticky tongue.

The Chair recog­nis­es Do­lores Jane Um­bridge, Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter,' said Fudge.

The witch spoke in a flut­tery, girl­ish, high-​pitched voice that took Har­ry aback; he had been ex­pect­ing a croak.

'I'm sure I must have mis­un­der­stood you, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,' she said, with a sim­per that left her big, round eyes as cold as ev­er. 'So sil­ly of me. But it sound­ed for a teen­sy mo­ment as though you were sug­gest­ing that the Min­istry of Mag­ic had or­dered an at­tack on this boy!'

She gave a sil­very laugh that made the hairs on the back of Har­ry's neck stand up. A few oth­er mem­bers of the Wiz­eng­amot laughed with her. It could not have been plain­er that not one of them was re­al­ly amused.

'If it is true that the De­men­tors are tak­ing or­ders on­ly from the Min­istry of Mag­ic, and it is al­so true that two De­men­tors at­tacked Har­ry and his cousin a week ago, then it fol­lows log­ical­ly that some­body at the Min­istry might have or­dered the at­tacks,' said Dum­ble­dore po­lite­ly. 'Of course, these par­tic­ular De­men­tors may have been out­side Min­istry con­trol -'

'There are no De­men­tors out­side Min­istry con­trol!' snapped Fudge, who had turned brick red.

Dum­ble­dore in­clined his head in a lit­tle bow.

Then un­doubt­ed­ly the Min­istry will be mak­ing a full in­quiry in­to why two De­men­tors were so very far from Azk­aban and why they at­tacked with­out au­tho­ri­sa­tion.'

'It is not for you to de­cide what the Min­istry of Mag­ic does or does not do, Dum­ble­dore!' snapped Fudge, now a shade of ma­gen­ta of which Un­cle Ver­non would have been proud.

'Of course it isn't,' said Dum­ble­dore mild­ly. 'I was mere­ly ex­press­ing my con­fi­dence that this mat­ter will not go un­in­vesti-​gat­ed.'

He glanced at Madam Bones, who read­just­ed her mon­ocle and stared back at him, frown­ing slight­ly.

'I would re­mind ev­ery­body that the be­haviour of these De­men­tors, if in­deed they are not fig­ments of this boy's imag­ina­tion, is not the sub­ject of this hear­ing!' said Fudge. 'We are here to ex­am­ine Har­ry Pot­ter's of­fences un­der the De­cree for the Rea­son­able Re­stric­tion of Un­der­age Sor­cery!'

'Of course we are,' said Dum­ble­dore, 'but the pres­ence of De­men­tors in that al­ley­way is high­ly rel­evant. Clause Sev­en of the De­cree states that mag­ic may be used be­fore Mug­gles in ex­cep­tion­al cir­cum­stances, and as those ex­cep­tion­al cir­cum­stances in­clude sit­ua­tions which threat­en the life of the wiz­ard or witch him- or her­self, or any witch­es, wiz­ards or Mug­gles present at the time of the -'

'We are fa­mil­iar with Clause Sev­en, thank you very much!' snarled Fudge.

'Of course you are,' said Dum­ble­dore cour­te­ous­ly. Then we are in agree­ment that Har­rys use of the Pa­tronus Charm in these cir­cum­stances falls pre­cise­ly in­to the cat­ego­ry of ex­cep­tion­al cir­cum­stances the clause de­scribes?'

'If there were De­men­tors, which I doubt.'

'You have heard it from an eye­wit­ness,' Dum­ble­dore in­ter­rupt­ed.

'If you still doubt her truth­ful­ness, call her back, ques­tion her again. I am sure she would not ob­ject.'

'I - that - not -' blus­tered Fudge, fid­dling with the pa­pers be­fore him. 'It's - I want this over with to­day, Dum­ble­dore!'

'But nat­ural­ly, you would not care how many times you heard from a wit­ness, if the al­ter­na­tive was a se­ri­ous mis­car­riage of jus­tice,' said Dum­ble­dore.

'Se­ri­ous mis­car­riage, my hat!' said Fudge at the top of his voice. 'Have you ev­er both­ered to tot up the num­ber of cock-​and-​bull sto­ries this boy has come out with, Dum­ble­dore, while try­ing to cov­er up his fla­grant mis­use of mag­ic out of school? I sup­pose you've for­got­ten the Hov­er Charm he used three years ago -'

That wasn't me, it was a house-​elf!' said Har­ry.

'YOU SEE?' roared Fudge, ges­tur­ing flam­boy­ant­ly in Har­ry's di­rec­tion. 'A house-​elf! In a Mug­gle house! I ask you.'

The house-​elfin ques­tion is cur­rent­ly in the em­ploy of Hog­warts School,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'I can sum­mon him here in an in­stant to give ev­idence if you wish."

'I - not - I haven't got time to lis­ten to house-​elves! Any­way, that's not the on­ly - he blew up his aunt, for God's sake!' Fudge shout­ed, bang­ing his fist on the judge's bench and up­set­ting a bot­tle of ink.

'And you very kind­ly did not press charges on that oc­ca­sion, ac­cept­ing, I pre­sume, that even the best wiz­ards can­not al­ways con­trol their emo­tions,' said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly, as Fudge at­tempt­ed to scrub the ink off his notes.

'And I haven't even start­ed on what he gets up to at school.'

'But, as the Min­istry has no au­thor­ity to pun­ish Hog­warts stu­dents for mis­de­meanours at school, Har­ry's be­haviour there is not rel­evant to this hear­ing,' said Dum­ble­dore, as po­lite­ly as ev­er, but now with a sug­ges­tion of cool­ness be­hind his words.

'Oho!' said Fudge. 'Not our busi­ness what he does at school, eh? You think so?'

The Min­istry does not have the pow­er to ex­pel Hog­warts stu­dents, Cor­nelius, as I re­mind­ed you on the night of the sec­ond of Au­gust,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'Nor does it have the right to con­fis­cate wands un­til charges have been suc­cess­ful­ly proven; again, as

I re­mind­ed you on the night of the sec­ond of Au­gust. In your ad­mirable haste to en­sure that the law is up­held, you ap­pear, in­ad­ver­tent­ly I am sure, to have over­looked a few laws your­self.'

'Laws can be changed,' said Fudge sav­age­ly.

'Of course they can,' said Dum­ble­dore, in­clin­ing his head. 'And vou cer­tain­ly seem to be mak­ing many changes, Cor­nelius. Why, in the few short weeks since I was asked to leave the Wiz­eng­amot, it has al­ready be­come the prac­tice to hold a full crim­inal tri­al to deal with a sim­ple mat­ter of un­der­age mag­ic!'

A few of the wiz­ards above them shift­ed un­com­fort­ably in their seats. Fudge turned a slight­ly deep­er shade of puce. The toad­like witch on his right, how­ev­er, mere­ly gazed at Dum­ble­dore, her face quite ex­pres­sion­less.

'As far as I am aware,' Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, 'there is no law yet in place that says this court's job is to pun­ish Har­ry for ev­ery bit of mag­ic he has ev­er per­formed. He has been charged with a spe­cif­ic of­fence and he has pre­sent­ed his de­fence. All he and I can do now is to await your ver­dict.'

Dum­ble­dore put his fin­ger­tips to­geth­er again and said no more. Fudge glared at him, ev­ident­ly in­censed. Har­ry glanced side­ways at Dum­ble­dore, seek­ing re­as­sur­ance; he was not at all sure that Dum­ble­dore was right in telling the Wiz­eng­amot, in ef­fect, that it was about time they made a de­ci­sion. Again, how­ev­er, Dum­ble­dore seemed obliv­ious to Har­ry's at­tempt to catch his eye. He con­tin­ued to look up at the bench­es where the en­tire Wiz­eng­amot had fall­en in­to ur­gent, whis­pered con­ver­sa­tions.

Har­ry looked at his feet. His heart, which seemed to have swollen to an un­nat­ural size, was thump­ing loud­ly un­der his ribs. He had ex­pect­ed the hear­ing to last longer than this. He was not at all sure that he had made a good im­pres­sion. He had not re­al­ly said very much. He ought to have ex­plained more ful­ly about the De­men­tors, about how he had fall­en over, about how both he and Dud­ley had near­ly been kissed…

Twice he looked up at Fudge and opened his mouth to speak, but his swollen heart was now con­strict­ing his air pas­sages and both times he mere­ly took a deep breath and looked back down at his shoes.

Then the whis­per­ing stopped. Har­ry want­ed to look up at the judges, but found that it was re­al­ly much, much eas­ier to keep ex­am­in­ing his laces.

Those in favour of clear­ing the wit­ness of all charges?' said Madam Boness boom­ing voice.

Har­rys head jerked up­wards. There were hands in the air, many of them… more than half! Breath­ing very fast, he tried to count, but be­fore he could fin­ish, Madam Bones had said, 'And those in favour of con­vic­tion?'

Fudge raised his hand; so did half a dozen oth­ers, in­clud­ing the witch on his right and the heav­ily-​mous­tached wiz­ard and the frizzy-​haired witch in the sec­ond row.

Fudge glanced around at them all, look­ing as though there was some­thing large stuck in his throat, then low­ered his own hand. He took two deep breaths and said, in a voice dis­tort­ed by sup­pressed rage, 'Very well, very well… cleared of all charges.'

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Dum­ble­dore briskly, spring­ing to his feet, pulling out his wand and caus­ing the two chintz arm­chairs to van­ish. 'Well, I must be get­ting along. Good-​day to you all.'

And with­out look­ing once at Har­ry, he swept from the dun­geon.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 9 - The Woes of Mrs. Weasley


Dum­ble­dore's abrupt de­par­ture took Har­ry com­plete­ly by sur­prise. He re­mained sit­ting where he was in the chained chair, strug­gling with his feel­ings of shock and re­lief. The Wiz­eng­amot were all get­ting to their feet, talk­ing, gath­er­ing up their pa­pers and pack­ing them away. Har­ry stood up. No­body seemed to be pay­ing him the slight­est bit of at­ten­tion, ex­cept the toad­like witch on Fudge's right, who was now gaz­ing down at him in­stead of at Dum­ble­dore. Ig­nor­ing her, he tried to catch Fudge's eye, or Madam Bones's, want­ing to ask whether he was free to go, but Fudge seemed quite de­ter­mined not to no­tice Har­ry, and Madam Bones was busy with her brief­case, so he took a few ten­ta­tive steps to­wards the ex­it and, when no­body called him back, broke in­to a very fast walk.

He took the last few steps at a run, wrenched open the door and al­most col­lid­ed with Mr Weasley, who was stand­ing right out­side, look­ing pale and ap­pre­hen­sive.

'Dum­ble­dore didn't say -'

'Cleared,' Har­ry said, pulling the door closed be­hind him, 'of all charges!'

Beam­ing, Mr Weasley seized Har­ry by the shoul­ders.

'Har­ry, that's won­der­ful! Well, of course, they couldn't have found you guilty, not on the ev­idence, but even so, I can't pre­tend I wasn't -'

But Mr Weasley broke off, be­cause the court­room door had just opened again. The Wiz­eng­amot were fil­ing out.

'Mer­lin's beard!' ex­claimed Mr Weasley won­der­ing­ly, pulling Har­ry aside to let them all pass. 'You were tried by the full court?'

'I think so,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

One or two of the wiz­ards nod­ded to Har­ry as they passed and a few, in­clud­ing Madam Bones, said, 'Morn­ing, Arthur,' to Mr Weasley, but most avert­ed their eyes. Cor­nelius Fudge and the toad­like witch were al­most the last to leave the dun­geon. Fudge act­ed as though Mr Weasley and Har­ry were part of the wall, but again, the witch looked al­most ap­prais­ing­ly at Har­ry as she passed. Last of all to pass was Per­cy. Like Fudge, he com­plete­ly ig­nored his fa­ther and Har­ry; he marched past clutch­ing a large roll of parch­ment and a hand­ful of spare quills, his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around Mr Weasleys mouth tight­ened slight­ly, but oth­er than this he gave no sign that he had seen his third son.

'I'm go­ing to take you straight back so you can tell the oth­ers the good news,' he said, beck­on­ing Har­ry for­wards as Per­cy's heels dis­ap­peared up the steps to Lev­el Nine. Til drop you off on the way to that toi­let in Beth­nal Green. Come on…"

'So, what will you have to do about the toi­let?' Har­ry asked, grin­ning. Ev­ery­thing sud­den­ly seemed five times fun­nier than usu­al. It was start­ing to sink in: he was cleared, he was go­ing back to Hog­warts.

'Oh, its a sim­ple enough an­ti-​jinx,' said Mr Weasley as they mount­ed the stairs, 'but it's not so much hav­ing to re­pair the dam­age, its more the at­ti­tude be­hind the van­dal­ism, Har­ry. Mug­gle-​bait­ing might strike some wiz­ards as fun­ny, but it's an ex­pres­sion of some­thing much deep­er and nas­ti­er, and I for one -'

Mr Weasley broke off in mid-​sen­tence. They had just reached the ninth-​lev­el cor­ri­dor and Cor­nelius Fudge was stand­ing a few feet away from them, talk­ing qui­et­ly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a point­ed, pale face.

The sec­ond man turned at the sound of their foot­steps. He, too, broke off in mid-​con­ver­sa­tion, his cold grey eyes nar­rowed and fixed up­on Har­ry's face.

'Well, well, well… Pa­tronus Pot­ter,' said Lu­cius Mal­foy cool­ly.

Har­ry felt wind­ed, as though he had just walked in­to some­thing sol­id. He had last seen those cold grey eyes through slits in a Death Eaters hood, and last heard that man's voice jeer­ing in a dark grave­yard while Lord Volde­mort tor­tured him. Har­ry could not be­lieve that Lu­cius Mal­foy dared look him in the face; he could not be­lieve that he was here, in the Min­istry of Mag­ic, or that Cor­nelius Fudge was talk­ing to him, when Har­ry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Mal­foy was a Death Eater.

'The Min­is­ter was just telling me about your lucky es­cape, Pot­ter,' drawled Mr Mal­foy. 'Quite as­ton­ish­ing, the way you con­tin­ue to wrig­gle out of very tight holes… snake­like, in fact.'

Mr Weasley gripped Har­ry's shoul­der in warn­ing.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, 'yeah, I'm good at es­cap­ing.'

Lu­cius Mal­foy raised his eyes to Mr Weasley's face.

'And Arthur Weasley too! What are you do­ing here, Arthur?'

'I work here,' said Mr Weasley curt­ly.

'Not here, sure­ly?' said Mr Mal­foy, rais­ing his eye­brows and glanc­ing to­wards the door over Mr Weasley's shoul­der. 'I thought you were up on the sec­ond floor… don't you do some­thing that in­volves sneak­ing Mug­gle arte­facts home and be­witch­ing them?'

'No,' Mr Weasley snapped, his fin­gers now bit­ing in­to Har­rys shoul­der.

What are you do­ing here, any­way?' Har­ry asked Lu­cius Mal­foy.

'I don't think pri­vate mat­ters be­tween my­self and the Min­is­ter are any con­cern of yours, Pot­ter,' said Mal­foy, smooth­ing the front of his robes. Har­ry dis­tinct­ly heard the gen­tle clink­ing of what sound­ed like a full pock­et of gold. 'Re­al­ly, just be­cause you are Dum­ble­dore's favourite boy, you must not ex­pect the same in­dul­gence from the rest of us… shall we go up to your of­fice, then, Min­is­ter?'

'Cer­tain­ly' said Fudge, turn­ing his back on Har­ry and Mr Weasley. This way, Lu­cius.'

They strode off to­geth­er, talk­ing in low voic­es. Mr Weasley did not let go of Har­ry's shoul­der un­til they had dis­ap­peared in­to the lift.

Why wasn't he wait­ing out­side Fudge's of­fice if they've got busi­ness to do to­geth­er?' Har­ry burst out fu­ri­ous­ly. What was he do­ing down here?'

'Try­ing to sneak down to the court­room, if you ask me,' said Mr Weasley, look­ing ex­treme­ly ag­itat­ed and glanc­ing over his shoul­der as though mak­ing sure they could not be over­heard. Try­ing

One or two of the wiz­ards nod­ded to Har­ry as they passed and a few, in­clud­ing Madam Bones, said, 'Morn­ing, Arthur,' to Mr Weasley, but most avert­ed their eyes. Cor­nelius Fudge and the toad­like witch were al­most the last to leave the dun­geon. Fudge act­ed as though Mr Weasley and Har­ry were part of the wall, but again, the witch looked al­most ap­prais­ing­ly at Har­ry as she passed. Last of all to pass was Per­cy. Like Fudge, he com­plete­ly ig­nored his fa­ther and Har­ry; he marched past clutch­ing a large roll of parch­ment and a hand­ful of spare quills, his back rigid and his nose in the air. The lines around Mr Weasley's mouth tight­ened slight­ly, but oth­er than this he gave no sign that he had seen his third son.

'I'm go­ing to take you straight back so you can tell the oth­ers the good news,' he said, beck­on­ing Har­ry for­wards as Per­cy's heels dis­ap­peared up the steps to Lev­el Nine. Til drop you off on the way to that toi­let in Beth­nal Green. Come on…"

'So, what will you have to do about the toi­let?' Har­ry asked, grin­ning. Ev­ery­thing sud­den­ly seemed five times fun­nier than usu­al. It was start­ing to sink in: he was cleared, he was go­ing back to Hog­warts.

'Oh, it's a sim­ple enough an­ti-​jinx,' said Mr Weasley as they mount­ed the stairs, 'but it's not so much hav­ing to re­pair the dam­age, it's more the at­ti­tude be­hind the van­dal­ism, Har­ry. Mug­gle-​bait­ing might strike some wiz­ards as fun­ny, but it's an ex­pres­sion of some­thing much deep­er and nas­ti­er, and I for one -'

Mr Weasley broke off in mid-​sen­tence. They had just reached the ninth-​lev­el cor­ri­dor and Cor­nelius Fudge was stand­ing a few feet away from them, talk­ing qui­et­ly to a tall man with sleek blond hair and a point­ed, pale face.

The sec­ond man turned at the sound of their foot­steps. He, too, broke off in mid-​con­ver­sa­tion, his cold grey eyes nar­rowed and fixed up­on Har­ry's face.

'Well, well, well… Pa­tronus Pot­ter,' said Lu­cius Mal­foy cool­ly.

Har­ry felt wind­ed, as though he had just walked in­to some­thing sol­id. He had last seen those cold grey eyes through slits in a Death Eaters hood, and last heard that man's voice jeer­ing in a dark grave­yard while Lord Volde­mort tor­tured him. Har­ry could not be­lieve that Lu­cius Mal­foy dared look him in the face; he could not be­lieve that he was here, in the Min­istry of Mag­ic, or that Cor­nelius Fudge was talk­ing to him, when Har­ry had told Fudge mere weeks ago that Mal­foy was a Death Eater.

The Min­is­ter was just telling me about your lucky es­cape, Pot­ter,' drawled Mr Mal­foy. 'Quite as­ton­ish­ing, the way you con­tin­ue to wrig­gle out of very tight holes… snakdike, in fact.'

Mr Weasley gripped Har­ry's shoul­der in warn­ing.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, 'yeah, I'm good at es­cap­ing.'

Lu­cius Mal­foy raised his eyes to Mr Weasley's face.

'And Arthur Weasley too! What are you do­ing here, Arthur?'

'I work here,' said Mr Weasley curt­ly.

'Not here, sure­ly?' said Mr Mal­foy, rais­ing his eye­brows and glanc­ing to­wards the door over Mr Weasley's shoul­der. 'I thought you were up on the sec­ond floor… don't you do some­thing that in­volves sneak­ing Mug­gle arte­facts home and be­witch­ing them?'

'No,' Mr Weasley snapped, his fin­gers now bit­ing in­to Har­ry's shoul­der.

'What are you do­ing here, any­way?' Har­ry asked Lu­cius Mal­foy.

'I don't think pri­vate mat­ters be­tween my­self and the Min­is­ter are any con­cern of yours, Pot­ter,' said Mal­foy, smooth­ing the front of his robes. Har­ry dis­tinct­ly heard the gen­tle clink­ing of what sound­ed like a full pock­et of gold. 'Re­al­ly, just be­cause you are Dum­ble­dore's favourite boy, you must not ex­pect the same in­dul­gence from the rest of us… shall we go up to your of­fice, then, Min­is­ter?'

'Cer­tain­ly' said Fudge, turn­ing his back on Har­ry and Mr Weasley. This way, Lu­cius.'

They strode off to­geth­er, talk­ing in low voic­es. Mr Weasley did not let go of Har­ry's shoul­der un­til they had dis­ap­peared in­to the lift.

'Why wasn't he wait­ing out­side Fudge's of­fice if they've got busi­ness to do to­geth­er?' Har­ry burst out fu­ri­ous­ly. 'What was he do­ing down here?'

'Try­ing to sneak down to the court­room, if you ask me,' said Mr Weasley, look­ing ex­treme­ly ag­itat­ed and glanc­ing over his shoul­der as though mak­ing sure they could not be over­heard. Try­ing to find out whether you'd been ex­pelled or not. I'll leave a note for Dum­ble­dore when I drop you off, he ought to know Mal­foys been talk­ing to Fudge again.'

'What pri­vate busi­ness have they got to­geth­er, any­way?'

'Gold, I ex­pect,' said Mr Weasley an­gri­ly. 'Mal­foy's been giv­ing gen­er­ous­ly to all sorts of things for years… gets him in with the right peo­ple… then he can ask favours… de­lay laws he doesn't want passed… oh, he's very well-​con­nect­ed, Lu­cius Mal­foy.'

The lift ar­rived; it was emp­ty ex­cept for a flock of mem­os that flapped around Mr Weasley's head as he pressed the but­ton for the Atri­um and the doors clanged shut. He waved them away ir­ri­ta­bly.

'Mr Weasley' said Har­ry slow­ly, 'if Fudge is meet­ing Death Eaters like Mal­foy, if he's see­ing them alone, how do we know they haven't put the Im­perius Curse on him?'

'Don't think it hasn't oc­curred to us, Har­ry' said Mr Weasley qui­et­ly. 'But Dum­ble­dore thinks Fudge is act­ing of his own ac­cord at the mo­ment - which, as Dum­ble­dore says, is not a lot of com­fort. Best not talk about it any more just now, Har­ry.'

The doors slid open and they stepped out in­to the now al­most-​de­sert­ed Atri­um. Er­ic the watch­wiz­ard was hid­den be­hind his Dai­ly Prophet again. They had walked straight past the gold­en foun­tain be­fore Har­ry re­mem­bered.

'Wait…' he told Mr Weasley, and, pulling his mon­ey­bag Irom his pock­et, he turned back to the foun­tain.

He looked up in­to the hand­some wiz­ard's face, but close-​to Har­ry thought he looked rather weak and fool­ish. The witch was wear­ing a va­pid smile like a beau­ty con­tes­tant, and from what Har­ry knew of gob­lins and cen­taurs, they were most un­like­ly to be caught star­ing so sop­pi­ly at hu­mans of any de­scrip­tion. On­ly the house-​elf's at­ti­tude of creep­ing ser­vil­ity looked con­vinc­ing. With a grin at the thought of what Hermione would say if she could see the stat­ue of the elf, Har­ry turned his mon­ey­bag up­side-​down and emp­tied not just ten Galleons, but the whole con­tents in­to the pool.

*

'I knew it!' yelled Ron, punch­ing the air. 'You al­ways get away with stuff!'

They were bound to clear you,' said Hermione, who had looked pos­itive­ly faint with anx­iety when Har­ry had en­tered the kitchen and was now hold­ing a shak­ing hand over her eyes, 'there was no case against you, none at all.'

'Ev­ery­one seems quite re­lieved, though, con­sid­er­ing you all knew I'd get off,' said Har­ry, smil­ing.

Mrs. Weasley was wip­ing her face on her apron, and Fred, George and Gin­ny were do­ing a kind of war dance to a chant that went: 'He got off, he got off, he got off…"

That's enough! Set­tle down!' shout­ed Mr Weasley, though he too was smil­ing. 'Lis­ten, Sir­ius, Lu­cius Mal­foy was at the Min­istry -'

'What?' said Sir­ius sharply.

'He got off, he got off, he got off…"

'Be qui­et, you three! Yes, we saw him talk­ing to Fudge on Lev­el Nine, then they went up to Fudge's of­fice to­geth­er. Dum­ble­dore ought to know.'

'Ab­so­lute­ly,' said Sir­ius. 'We'll tell him, don't wor­ry.'

'Well, I'd bet­ter get go­ing, there's a vom­it­ing toi­let wait­ing for me in Beth­nal Green. Mol­ly, I'll be late, I'm cov­er­ing for Tonks, but Kings­ley might be drop­ping in for din­ner -'

'He got off, he got off, he got off…"

That's enough - Fred - George - Gin­ny!' said Mrs. Weasley, as Mr Weasley left the kitchen. 'Har­ry, dear, come and sit down, have some lunch, you hard­ly ate break­fast.'

Ron and Hermione sat them­selves down op­po­site him, look­ing hap­pi­er than they had done since he had first ar­rived at Grim­mauld Place, and Har­ry's feel­ing of gid­dy re­lief, which had been some­what dent­ed by his en­counter with Lu­cius Mal­foy, swelled again. The gloomy house seemed warmer and more wel­com­ing all of a sud­den; even Kreach­er looked less ug­ly as he poked his snout­like nose in­to the kitchen to in­ves­ti­gate the source of all the noise.

'Course, once Dum­ble­dore turned up on your side, there was no way they were go­ing to con­vict you,' said Ron hap­pi­ly, now dish­ing great mounds of mashed pota­to on to ev­ery­one's plates.

'Yeah, he swung it for me,' said Har­ry. He felt it would sound high­ly un­grate­ful, not to men­tion child­ish, to say, 'I wish he'd talked to me, though. Or even looked at me.'

And as he thought this, the scar on his fore­head burned so bad­ly that he clapped his hand to it.

'What's up?' said Hermione, look­ing alarmed.

'Scar,' Har­ry mum­bled. 'But it's noth­ing… it hap­pens all the time now…'

None of the oth­ers had no­ticed a thing; all of them were now help­ing them­selves to food while gloat­ing over Har­rys nar­row es­cape; Fred, George and Gin­ny were still singing. Hermione looked rather anx­ious, but be­fore she could say any­thing, Ron had said hap­pi­ly, 'I bet Dum­ble­dore turns up this evening, to cel­ebrate with us, you know.'

'I don't think he'll be able to, Ron,' said Mrs. Weasley, set­ting a huge plate of roast chick­en down in front of Har­ry. 'He's re­al­ly very busy at the mo­ment.'

'HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF, HE GOT OFF

'SHUT UP!' roared Mrs. Weasley.

*

Over the next few days Har­ry could not help notic­ing that there was one per­son with­in num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place, who did not seem whol­ly over­joyed that he would be re­turn­ing to Hog­warts. Sir­ius had put up a very good show of hap­pi­ness on first hear­ing the news, wring­ing Har­ry's hand and beam­ing just like the rest of them. Soon, how­ev­er, he was mood­ier and surli­er than be­fore, talk­ing less to ev­ery­body, even Har­ry, and spend­ing in­creas­ing amounts of time shut up in his moth­er's room with Buck­beak.

'Don't you go feel­ing guilty!' said Hermione stern­ly, af­ter Har­ry had con­fid­ed some of his feel­ings to her and Ron while they scrubbed out a mouldy cup­board on the third floor a few days lat­er. 'You be­long at Hog­warts and Sir­ius knows it. Per­son­al­ly, I think he's be­ing self­ish.'

That's a bit harsh, Hermione,' said Ron, frown­ing as he at­tempt­ed to prise off a bit of mould that had at­tached it­self firm­ly to his fin­ger, 'you wouldn't want to be stuck in­side this house with­out any com­pa­ny.'

'He'll have com­pa­ny!' said Hermione. 'It's Head­quar­ters to the Or­der of the Phoenix, isn't it? He just got his hopes up that Har­ry would be com­ing to live here with him.'

don't think that's true/ said Har­ry, wring­ing out his cloth. 'He wouldn't give me a straight an­swer when I asked him if I could.'

'He just didn't want to get his own hopes up even more,' said Hermione wise­ly. 'And he prob­ably felt a bit guilty him­self, be­cause I think a part of him was re­al­ly hop­ing you'd be ex­pelled. Then you'd both be out­casts to­geth­er.'

'Come off it!' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er, but Hermione mere­ly shrugged.

'Suit your­selves. But I some­times think Rons mums right and Sir­ius gets con­fused about whether you're you or your fa­ther, Har­ry.'

'So you think he's touched in the head?' said Har­ry heat­ed­ly.

'No, I just think he's been very lone­ly for a long time,' said Hermione sim­ply.

At this point, Mrs. Weasley en­tered the bed­room be­hind them.

'Still not fin­ished?' she said, pok­ing her head in­to the cup­board.

'I thought you might be here to tell us to have a break!' said Ron bit­ter­ly. 'D'you know how much mould we've got rid of since we ar­rived here?'

'You were so keen to help the Or­der,' said Mrs. Weasley, 'you can do your bit by mak­ing Head­quar­ters fit to live in.'

'I feel like a house-​elf,' grum­bled Ron.

'Well, now you un­der­stand what dread­ful lives they lead, per­haps you'll be a bit more ac­tive in SPEW!' said Hermione hope­ful­ly, as Mrs. Weasley left them to it. 'You know, maybe it wouldn't be a bad idea to show peo­ple ex­act­ly how hor­ri­ble it is to clean all the time - we could do a spon­sored scrub ol Gryffind­or com­mon room, all pro­ceeds to SPEW, it would raise aware­ness as well as funds.'

'I'll spon­sor you to shut up about SPEW,' Ron mut­tered ir­ri­ta­bly, but on­ly so Har­ry could hear him.

*

Har­ry found him­self day­dream­ing about Hog­warts more and more as the end of the hol­idays ap­proached; he could not wait to see Ha­grid again, to play Quid­ditch, even to stroll across the veg­etable patch­es to the Her­bol­ogy green­hous­es; it would be a treat just to leave this dusty, musty house, where half of the cup­boards were still bolt­ed shut and Kreach­er wheezed in­sults out of the shad­ows as you passed, though Har­ry was care­ful not to say any of this with­in earshot of Sir­ius.

The fact was that liv­ing at the Head­quar­ters of the an­ti-​Volde­mort move­ment was not near­ly as in­ter­est­ing or ex­cit­ing as Har­ry would have ex­pect­ed be­fore he'd ex­pe­ri­enced it. Though mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix came and went reg­ular­ly, some­times stay­ing for meals, some­times on­ly for a few min­utes of whis­pered con­ver­sa­tion, Mrs. Weasley made sure that Har­ry and the oth­ers were kept well out of earshot (whether Ex­tend­able or nor­mal) and no­body, not even Sir­ius, seemed to feel that Har­ry need­ed to know any­thing more than he had heard on the night of his ar­rival.

On the very last day of the hol­idays Har­ry was sweep­ing up Hed­wigs owl drop­pings from the top of the wardrobe when Ron en­tered their bed­room car­ry­ing a cou­ple of en­velopes.

'Book­lists have ar­rived,' he said, throw­ing one of the en­velopes up to Har­ry, who was stand­ing on a chair. 'About time, I thought they'd for­got­ten, they usu­al­ly come much ear­li­er than this…"

Har­ry swept the last of the drop­pings in­to a rub­bish bag and threw the bag over Ron's head in­to the wastepa­per bas­ket in the cor­ner, which swal­lowed it and belched loud­ly. He then opened his let­ter. It con­tained two pieces of parch­ment: one the usu­al re­minder that term start­ed on the first of Septem­ber; the oth­er telling him which books he would need for the com­ing year.

'On­ly two new ones,' he said, read­ing the list, The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 5, by Mi­ran­da Goshawk, and De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory, by Wilbert Slinkhard.'

Crack.

Fred and George Ap­pa­rat­ed right be­side Har­ry. He was so used to them do­ing this by now that he didn't even fall off his chair.

'We were just won­der­ing who set the Slinkhard book,' said Fred con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly.

'Be­cause it means Dum­ble­dore's found a new De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er,' said George.

'And about time too,' said Fred.

'What d'you mean?' Har­ry asked, jump­ing down be­side them.

'Well, we over­heard Mum and Dad talk­ing on the Ex­tend­able Ears a few weeks back,' Fred told Har­ry, 'and from what they were say­ing, Dum­ble­dore was hav­ing re­al trou­ble find­ing any­one to do the job this year.

'Not sur­pris­ing, is it, when you look at what's hap­pened to the last four?' said George.

'One sacked, one dead, one's mem­ory re­moved and one locked in a trunk for nine months,' said Har­ry, count­ing them off on his fin­gers. 'Yeah, I see what you mean.'

'What's up with you, Ron?' asked Fred.

Ron did not an­swer. Har­ry looked round. Ron was stand­ing very still with his mouth slight­ly open, gap­ing at his let­ter from Hog­warts.

'What's the mat­ter?' said Fred im­pa­tient­ly, mov­ing around Ron to look over his shoul­der at the parch­ment.

Fred's mouth fell open, too.

'Pre­fect?' he said, star­ing in­cred­ulous­ly at the let­ter. 'Pre­fect?'

George leapt for­wards, seized the en­ve­lope in Ron's oth­er hand and turned it up­side-​down. Har­ry saw some­thing scar­let and gold fall in­to George's palm.

'No way,' said George in a hushed voice.

There's been a mis­take,' said Fred, snatch­ing the let­ter out of Ron's grasp and hold­ing it up to the light as though check­ing for a wa­ter­mark. 'No one in their right mind would make Ron a pre­fect.'

The twins' heads turned in uni­son and both of them stared at Har­ry.

'We thought you were a cert!' said Fred, in a tone that sug­gest­ed Har­ry had tricked them in some way.

'We thought Dum­ble­dore was bound to pick you!' said George in­dig­nant­ly.

'Win­ning the Tri­wiz­ard and ev­ery­thing!' said Fred.

'I sup­pose all the mad stuff must've count­ed against him,' said George to Fred.

'Yeah,' said Fred slow­ly. 'Yeah, you've caused too much trou­ble, mate. Well, at least one of you's got their pri­or­ities right.'

He strode over to Har­ry and clapped him on the back while giv­ing Ron a scathing look.

'Pre­fect… ick­le Ron­nie the Pre­fect.'

'Ohh, Mum's go­ing to be re­volt­ing,' groaned George, thrust­ing the pre­fect badge back at Ron as though it might con­tam­inate him.

Ron, who still had not said a word, took the badge, stared at it for a mo­ment, then held it out to Har­ry as though ask­ing mute­ly for con­fir­ma­tion that it was gen­uine. Har­ry took it. A large T' was su­per­im­posed on the Gryffind­or li­on. He had seen a badge just like this on Per­cys chest on his very first day at Hog­warts.

The door banged open. Hermione came tear­ing in­to the room, her cheeks flushed and her hair fly­ing. There was an en­ve­lope in her hand.

'Did you - did you get -?'

She spot­ted the badge in Har­ry's hand and let out a shriek.

'] knew it!' she said ex­cit­ed­ly, bran­dish­ing her let­ter. 'Me too, Har­ry, me too!'

'No,' said Har­ry quick­ly, push­ing the badge back in­to Ron's hand. 'It's Ron, not me.' :

'It - what?' i-

'Ron's pre­fect, not me,' Har­ry said.

'Ron?' said Hermione, her jaw drop­ping. 'But… are you sure? I mean -'

She turned red as Ron looked round at her with a de­fi­ant ex­pres­sion on his face.

'Its my name on the let­ter,' he said.

'I…' said Hermione, look­ing thor­ough­ly be­wil­dered. '1… well… wow! Well done, Ron! That's re­al­ly -'

'Un­ex­pect­ed,' said George, nod­ding.

'No,' said Hermione, blush­ing hard­er than ev­er, 'no it's not… Ron's done loads of… he's re­al­ly…'

The door be­hind her opened a lit­tle wider and Mrs. Weasley backed in­to the room car­ry­ing a pile of fresh­ly laun­dered robes.

'Gin­ny said the book­lists had come at last,' she said, glanc­ing around at all the en­velopes as she made her way over to the bed and start­ed sort­ing the robes in­to two piles. 'If you give them to me I'll take them over to Di­agon Al­ley this af­ter­noon and get your books while you're pack­ing. Ron, I'll have to get you more py­ja­mas, these are at least six inch­es too short, I can't be­lieve how fast you're grow­ing… what colour would you like?'

Tut WOES OF MRS. WEASLEY

'Get him red and gold to match his badge,' said George, smirk­ing.

'Match his what?' said Mrs. Weasley ab­sent­ly, rolling up a pair of ma­roon socks and plac­ing them on Ron's pile.

'His badge,' said Fred, with the air of get­ting the worst over quick­ly. 'His love­ly shiny new pre­fect's badge.'

Fred's words took a mo­ment to pen­etrate Mrs. Weasley's pre­oc­cu­pa­tion with py­ja­mas.

'His… but… Ron, you're not…?'

Ron held up his badge.

Mrs. Weasley let out a shriek just like Hermione's.

'I don't be­lieve it! I don't be­lieve it! Oh, Ron, how won­der­ful! A pre­fect! That's ev­ery­one in the fam­ily!'

'What are Fred and I, next-​door neigh­bours?' said George in­dig­nant­ly, as his moth­er pushed him aside and flung her arms around her youngest son.

'Wait un­til your fa­ther hears! Ron, I'm so proud of you, what won­der­ful news, you could end up Head Boy just like Bill and Per­cy, it's the first step! Oh, what a thing to hap­pen in the mid­dle of all this wor­ry, I'm just thrilled, oh, Ron­nie —

Fred and George were both mak­ing loud retch­ing nois­es be­hind her back but Mrs. Weasley did not no­tice; arms tight around Ron's neck, she was kiss­ing him all over his face, which had turned a brighter scar­let than his badge.

'Mum… don't… Mum, get a grip…' he mut­tered, try­ing to push her away.

She let go of him and said breath­less­ly, 'Well, what will it be? We gave Per­cy an owl, but you've al­ready got one, of course.'

W-​what do you mean?' said Ron, look­ing as though he did not dare be­lieve his ears.

'You've got to have a re­ward for this!' said Mrs. Weasley fond­ly. 'How about a nice new set of dress robes?'

'We've al­ready bought him some,' said Fred sourly, who looked as though he sin­cere­ly re­gret­ted this gen­eros­ity.

'Or a new caul­dron, Char­lies old one's rust­ing through, or a new rat, you al­ways liked Scab­bers -'

'Mum,' said Ron hope­ful­ly, 'can I have a new broom?'

Mrs. Weasley's face fell slight­ly; broom­sticks were ex­pen­sive.

'Not a re­al­ly good one!' Ron has­tened to add. 'Just -just a new one for a change…"

Mrs. Weasley hes­itat­ed, then smiled.

'Of course you can… well, I'd bet­ter get go­ing if I've got a broom to buy too. I'll see you all lat­er… lit­tle Ron­nie, a pre­fect! And don't for­get to pack your trunks… a pre­fect… oh, I'm all of a dither!'

She gave Ron yet an­oth­er kiss on the cheek, sniffed loud­ly, and bus­tled from the room.

Fred and George ex­changed looks.

'You don't mind if we don't kiss you, do you, Ron?' said Fred in a false­ly anx­ious voice.

'We could curt­sey, if you like,' said George.

'Oh, shut up,' said Ron, scowl­ing at them.

'Or what?' said Fred, an evil grin spread­ing across his face. 'Go­ing to put us in de­ten­tion?'

I'd love to see him try,' snig­gered George.

'He could if you don't watch out!' said Hermione an­gri­ly.

Fred and George burst out laugh­ing, and Ron mut­tered, 'Drop it, Hermione.'

'We're go­ing to have to watch our step, George,' said Fred, pre­tend­ing to trem­ble, 'with these two on our case…'

'Yeah, it looks like our law-​break­ing days are fi­nal­ly over,' said George, shak­ing his head.

And with an­oth­er loud crack, the twins Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed.

Those two!' said Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly, star­ing up at the ceil­ing, through which they could now hear Fred and George roar­ing with laugh­ter in the room up­stairs. 'Don't pay any at­ten­tion to them, Ron, they're on­ly jeal­ous!'

'I don't think they are,' said Ron doubt­ful­ly, al­so look­ing up at the ceil­ing. They've al­ways said on­ly prats be­come pre­fects… still,' he added on a hap­pi­er note, 'they've nev­er had new brooms! I wish I could go with Mum and choose… she'll nev­er be able to af­ford a Nim­bus, but there's the new Clean­sweep out, that'd be great… yeah, I think I'll go and tell her I like the Clean­sweep, just so she knows

He dashed from the room, leav­ing Har­ry and Hermione alone.

For some rea­son, Har­ry found he did not want to look at

THE WOES OF MRS. WE A SLEY 1^

Hermione. He turned to his bed, picked up the pile of clean robes Mrs. Weasley had laid on it and crossed the room to his trunk.

'Har­ry?' said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly.

'Well done, Hermione,' said Har­ry, so hearti­ly it did not sound like his voice at all, and, still not look­ing at her, 'bril­liant. Pre­fect. Great.'

Thanks,' said Hermione. 'Erm - Har­ry - could I bor­row Hed­wig so I can tell Mum and Dad? They'll be re­al­ly pleased - I mean pre­fect is some­thing they can un­der­stand.'

'Yeah, no prob­lem,' said Har­ry, still in the hor­ri­ble hearty voice that did not be­long to him. Take her!'

He leaned over his trunk, laid the robes on the bot­tom of it and pre­tend­ed to be rum­mag­ing for some­thing while Hermione crossed to the wardrobe and called Hed­wig down. A few mo­ments passed; Har­ry heard the door close but re­mained bent dou­ble, lis­ten­ing; the on­ly sounds he could hear were the blank pic­ture on the wall snig­ger­ing again and the wastepa­per bas­ket in the cor­ner cough­ing up the owl drop­pings.

He straight­ened up and looked be­hind him. Hermione had left and Hed­wig had gone. Har­ry hur­ried across the room, closed the door, then re­turned slow­ly to his bed and sank on to it, gaz­ing un­see­ing­ly at the foot of the wardrobe.

He had for­got­ten com­plete­ly about pre­fects be­ing cho­sen in the fifth year. He had been too anx­ious about the pos­si­bil­ity of be­ing ex­pelled to spare a thought for the fact that badges must be wing­ing their way to­wards cer­tain peo­ple. But if he had re­mem­bered… if he had thought about it… what would he have ex­pect­ed?

Not this, said a small and truth­ful voice in­side his head.

Har­ry screwed up his face and buried it in his hands. He could not lie to him­self; if he had known the pre­fect badge was on its way, he would have ex­pect­ed it to come to him, not Ron. Did this make him as ar­ro­gant as Dra­co Mal­foy? Did he think him­self su­pe­ri­or to ev­ery­one else? Did he re­al­ly be­lieve he was bet­ter than Ron?

No, said the small voice de­fi­ant­ly.

Was that true? Har­ry won­dered, anx­ious­ly prob­ing his own feel­ings.

I'm bet­ter at Quid­ditch, said the voice. But I'm not bet­ter at any­thing else.

That was def­inite­ly true, Har­ry thought; he was no bet­ter than Ron in lessons. But what about out­side lessons? What about those ad­ven­tures he, Ron and Hermione had had to­geth­er since start­ing at Hog­warts, of­ten risk­ing much worse than ex­pul­sion?

Well, Ron and Hermione were with me most of the time, said the voice in Har­ry's head.

Not all the time, though, Har­ry ar­gued with him­self. They didn't fight Quir­rell with me. They didn't take on Rid­dle and the Basilisk. They didn't get rid of all those De­men­tors the night Sir­ius es­caped. They weren't in that grave­yard with me, the night Volde­mort re­turned…

And the same feel­ing of ill-​us­age that had over­whelmed him on the night he had ar­rived rose again. I've def­inite­ly done more, Har­ry thought in­dig­nant­ly. I've done more than ei­ther of them!

But maybe, said the small voice fair­ly, maybe Dum­ble­dore doesn't choose pre­fects be­cause they've got them­selves in­to a load of dan­ger­ous sit­ua­tions… maybe he choos­es them for oth­er rea­sons… Ron must have some­thing you don't…

Har­ry opened his eyes and stared through his fin­gers at the wardrobe's clawed feet, re­mem­ber­ing what Fred had said: 'No one in their right mind would make Ron a pre­fect…'

Har­ry gave a small snort of laugh­ter. A sec­ond lat­er he felt sick­ened with him­self.

Ron had not asked Dum­ble­dore to give him the pre­fect badge. This was not Ron's fault. Was he, Har­ry, Ron's best friend in the world, go­ing to sulk be­cause he didn't have a badge, laugh with the twins be­hind Ron's back, ru­in this for Ron when, for the first time, he had beat­en Har­ry at some­thing?

At this point Har­ry heard Ron's foot­steps on the stairs again. He stood up, straight­ened his glass­es, and hitched a grin on to his face as Ron bound­ed back through the door.

'Just caught her!' he said hap­pi­ly. 'She says she'll get the Clean­sweep if she can.'

'Cool,' Har­ry said, and he was re­lieved to hear that his voice had stopped sound­ing hearty. 'Lis­ten - Ron - well done, mate.'

The smile fad­ed off Ron's face.

'I nev­er thought it would be me!' he said, shak­ing his head. 'I thought it would be you!'

'Nah, I've caused too much trou­ble,' Har­ry said, echo­ing Fred.

'Yeah,' said Ron, 'yeah, I sup­pose… well, we'd bet­ter get our trunks packed, hadn't we?'

It was odd how wide­ly their pos­ses­sions seemed to have scat­tered them­selves since they had ar­rived. It took them most of the af­ter­noon to re­trieve their books and be­long­ings from all over the house and stow them back in­side their school trunks. Har­ry no­ticed that Ron kept mov­ing his pre­fects badge around, first plac­ing it on his bed­side ta­ble, then putting it in­to his jeans pock­et, then tak­ing it out and ly­ing it on his fold­ed robes, as though to see the ef­fect of the red on the black. On­ly when Fred and George dropped in and of­fered to at­tach it to his fore­head with a Per­ma­nent Stick­ing Charm did he wrap it ten­der­ly in his ma­roon socks and lock it in his trunk.

Mrs. Weasley re­turned from Di­agon Al­ley around six o'clock, laden with books and car­ry­ing a long pack­age wrapped in thick brown pa­per that Ron took from her with a moan of long­ing.

'Nev­er mind un­wrap­ping it now, peo­ple are ar­riv­ing for din­ner, I want you all down­stairs,' she said, but the mo­ment she was out of sight Ron ripped off the pa­per in a fren­zy and ex­am­ined ev­ery inch of his new broom, an ec­stat­ic ex­pres­sion on his face.

Down in the base­ment Mrs. Weasley had hung a scar­let ban­ner over the heav­ily laden din­ner ta­ble, which read:

CON­GRAT­ULA­TIONS

RON AND HERMIONE

NEW PRE­FECTS

She looked in a bet­ter mood than Har­ry had seen her all hol­iday.

'I thought we'd have a lit­tle par­ty, not a sit-​down din­ner,' she told Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, George and Gin­ny as they en­tered the room. 'Your fa­ther and Bill are on their way, Ron. I've sent them both owls and they're thrilled,' she added, beam­ing.

Fred rolled his eyes.

Sir­ius, Lupin, Tonks and Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt were al­ready there and Mad-​Eye Moody stumped in short­ly af­ter Har­ry had got him­self a But­ter­beer.

'Oh, Alas­tor, I am glad you're here,' said Mrs. Weasley bright­ly, as Mad-​Eye shrugged off his trav­el­ling cloak. 'We've been want­ing to ask you for ages - could you have a look in the writ­ing desk in the draw­ing room and tell us what's in­side it? We haven't want­ed to open it just in case it's some­thing re­al­ly nasty.'

'No prob­lem, Mol­ly…'

Moody's elec­tric-​blue eye swiv­elled up­wards and stared fixed­ly through the ceil­ing of the kitchen.

'Draw­ing room…' he growled, as the pupil con­tract­ed. 'Desk in the cor­ner? Yeah, I see it… yeah, it's a Bog­gart… want me to go up and get rid of it, Mol­ly?'

'No, no, I'll do it my­self lat­er,' beamed Mrs. Weasley, 'you have your drink. We're hav­ing a lit­tle bit of a cel­ebra­tion, ac­tu­al­ly…' She ges­tured at the scar­let ban­ner. 'Fourth pre­fect in the fam­ily!' she said fond­ly, ruf­fling Ron's hair.

'Pre­fect, eh?' growled Moody, his nor­mal eye on Ron and his mag­ical eye swiv­el­ling around to gaze in­to the side of his head. Har­ry had the very un­com­fort­able feel­ing it was look­ing at him and moved away to­wards Sir­ius and Lupin.

Well, con­grat­ula­tions,' said Moody, still glar­ing at Ron with his nor­mal eye, 'au­thor­ity fig­ures al­ways at­tract trou­ble, but I sup­pose Dum­ble­dore thinks you can with­stand most ma­jor jinx­es or he wouldn't have ap­point­ed you…'

Ron looked rather star­tled at this view of the mat­ter but was saved the trou­ble of re­spond­ing by the ar­rival of his fa­ther and el­dest broth­er. Mrs. Weasley was in such a good mood she did not even com­plain that they had brought Mundun­gus with them; he was wear­ing a long over­coat that seemed odd­ly lumpy in un­like­ly places and de­clined the of­fer to re­move it and put it with Moody's trav­el­ling cloak.

Well, I think a toast is in or­der,' said Mr Weasley, when ev­ery­one had a drink. He raised his gob­let. To Ron and Hermione, the new Gryffind­or pre­fects!'

Ron and Hermione beamed as ev­ery­one drank to them, and then ap­plaud­ed.

'I was nev­er a pre­fect my­self,' said Tonks bright­ly from be­hind Har­ry as ev­ery­body moved to­wards the ta­ble to help them­selves to food. Her hair was toma­to red and waist-​length to­day; she looked like Gin­ny's old­er sis­ter. 'My Head of House said I lacked cer­tain nec­es­sary qual­ities.'

'Like what?' said Gin­ny, who was choos­ing a baked pota­to.

'Like the abil­ity to be­have my­self,' said Tonks.

Gin­ny laughed; Hermione looked as though she did not know whether to smile or not and com­pro­mised by tak­ing an ex­tra large gulp of But­ter­beer and chok­ing on it.

'What about you, Sir­ius?' Gin­ny asked, thump­ing Hermione on the back.

Sir­ius, who was right be­side Har­ry, let out his usu­al bark-​like laugh.

'No one would have made me a pre­fect, I spent too much time in de­ten­tion with James. Lupin was the good boy, he got the badge.'

'I think Dum­ble­dore might have hoped I would be able to ex­er­cise some con­trol over my best friends,' said Lupin. 'I need scarce­ly say that I failed dis­mal­ly.'

Har­ry's mood sud­den­ly lift­ed. His fa­ther had not been a pre­fect ei­ther. All at once the par­ty seemed much more en­joy­able; he load­ed up his plate, feel­ing dou­bly fond of ev­ery­one in the room.

Ron was rhap­so­dis­ing about his new broom to any­body who would lis­ten.

'… nought to sev­en­ty in ten sec­onds, not bad, is it? When you think the Comet Two Nine­ty's on­ly nought to six­ty and that's with a de­cent tail­wind ac­cord­ing to Which Broom­stick?'

Hermione was talk­ing very earnest­ly to Lupin about her view of elf rights.

'I mean, it's the same kind of non­sense as were­wolf seg­re­ga­tion, isn't it? It all stems from this hor­ri­ble thing wiz­ards have of think­ing they're su­pe­ri­or to oth­er crea­tures…"

Mrs. Weasley and Bill were hav­ing their usu­al ar­gu­ment about Bill's hair.

'… get­ting re­al­ly out of hand, and you're so good-​look­ing, it would look much bet­ter short­er, wouldn't it, Har­ry?'

'Oh - I dun­no -' said Har­ry, slight­ly alarmed at be­ing asked his opin­ion; he slid away from them in the di­rec­tion of Fred and George, who were hud­dled in a cor­ner with Mundun­gus.

Mundun­gus stopped talk­ing when he saw Har­ry, but Fred winked and beck­oned Har­ry clos­er.

'Its OK,' he told Mundun­gus, 'we can trust Har­ry, he's our fi­nan­cial back­er.'

'Look what Dung's got us,' said George, hold­ing out his hand to Har­ry. It was full of what looked like shriv­elled black pods. A faint rat­tling noise was com­ing from them, even though they were com­plete­ly sta­tion­ary.

'Ven­omous Ten­tac­ula seeds,' said George. 'We need them for the Skiv­ing Snack­box­es but they're a Class C Non-​Trade­able Sub­stance so we've been hav­ing a bit of trou­ble get­ting hold of them.'

Ten Galleons the lot, then. Dung?' said Fred.

'Wiv all the trou­ble I went to to get 'em?' said Mundun­gus, his sag­gy, blood­shot eyes stretch­ing even wider. 'I'm sor­ry, lads, but I'm not tak­ing a Knut un­der twen­ty.'

'Dung likes his lit­tle joke,' Fred said to Har­ry.

'Yeah, his best one so far has been six Sick­les for a bag of Knarl quills,' said George.

'Be care­ful,' Har­ry warned them qui­et­ly.

'What?' said Fred. 'Mum's busy coo­ing over Pre­fect Ron, we're OK.'

'But Moody could have his eye on you,' Har­ry point­ed out.

Mundun­gus looked ner­vous­ly over his shoul­der.

'Good point, that,' he grunt­ed. 'All right, lads, ten it is, if you'll take 'em quick;

'Cheers, Har­ry!' said Fred de­light­ed­ly, when Mundun­gus had emp­tied his pock­ets in­to the twins' out­stretched hands and scut­tled off to­wards the food. 'We'd bet­ter get these up­stairs…'

Har­ry watched them go, feel­ing slight­ly un­easy. It had just oc­curred to him that Mr and Mrs. Weasley would want to know how Fred and George were fi­nanc­ing their joke shop busi­ness when, as was in­evitable, they fi­nal­ly found out about it. Giv­ing l he twins his Tri­wiz­ard win­nings had seemed a sim­ple thing to do at the time, but what if it led to an­oth­er fam­ily row and a Per­cy-​like es­trange­ment? Would Mrs. Weasley still feel that Har­ry was as

Tut Woi - OF MR— WEASIEY

good as her son il she lound out he had made it pos­si­ble for Fred and George to start a ca­reer she thought quite un­suit­able?

Stand­ing where the twins had left him, with noth­ing but a guilty weight in the pit ol his stom­aeh tor eom­pa­ny, Har­ry caught the sound ol his own name. Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt's deep voice was au­di­ble even over the sur­round­ing chat­ter.

'… why Dum­ble­dore didn't make Pot­ter a pre­fect?' said Kings­ley.

'He'll have had his rea­sons,' replied Lupin.

'But it would've shown con­fi­dence in him. It's what I'd've done,' per­sist­ed Kings­ley, 'spe­cial­ly with the Dai­ly Prophet hav­ing a go at him ev­ery few days…"

Har­ry did not look round; he did not want Lupin or Kings­ley to know he had heard. Though not re­mote­ly hun­gry, he fol­lowed Mundun­gus back to­wards the ta­ble. His plea­sure in the par­ty had evap­orat­ed as quick­ly as it had come; he wished he were up­stairs in bed.

Mad-​Eye Moody was sniff­ing at a chick­en-​leg with what re­mained of his nose; ev­ident­ly he could not de­tect any trace of poi­son, be­cause he then tore a strip off it with his teeth.

'… the han­dles made of Span­ish oak with an­ti-​jinx var­nish and in-​built vi­bra­tion con­trol -' Ron was say­ing to Tonks.

Mrs. Weasley yawned wide­ly.

'Well, I think I'll sort out that Bog­gart be­fore I turn in… Arthur, I don't want this lot up too late, all right? Night, Har­ry, dear.'

She left the kitchen. Har­ry set down his plate and won­dered whether he could fol­low her with­out at­tract­ing at­ten­tion.

'You all right, Pot­ter?' grunt­ed Moody.

'Yeah, fine,' lied Har­ry.

Moody took a swig from his hipflask, his elec­tric-​blue eye star­ing side­ways at Har­ry.

'Come here, I've got some­thing that might in­ter­est you,' he said.

From an in­ner pock­et of his robes Moody pulled a very tat­tered old wiz­ard­ing pho­to­graph.

'Orig­inal Or­der of the Phoenix,' growled Moody. 'Found it last night when I was look­ing for my spare In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, see­ing as Pod­more hasn't had the man­ners to re­turn my best one… thought peo­ple might like to see it.'

Har­ry took the pho­to­graph. A small crowd of peo­ple, some wav­ing at him, oth­ers lift­ing their glass­es, looked back up at him.

There's me,' said Moody, un­nec­es­sar­ily point­ing at him­self. The Moody in the pic­ture was un­mis­take­able, though his hair was slight­ly less grey and his nose was in­tact. 'And there's Dum­ble­dore be­side me, Dedalus Dig­gle on the oth­er side… that's Mar­lene McK­in­non, she was killed two weeks af­ter this was tak­en, they got her whole fam­ily. That's Frank and Al­ice Long­bot­tom -'

Har­rys stom­ach, al­ready un­com­fort­able, clenched as he looked at Al­ice Long­bot­tom; he knew her round, friend­ly face very well, even though he had nev­er met her, be­cause she was the im­age of her son, Neville.

'— poor dev­ils,' growled Moody. 'Bet­ter dead than what hap­pened to them… and that's Em­me­line Vance, you've met her, and that there's Lupin, ob­vi­ous­ly… Ben­jy Fen­wick, he copped it too, we on­ly ev­er found bits of him… shift aside there,' he added, pok­ing the pic­ture, and the lit­tle pho­to­graph­ic peo­ple edged side­ways, so that those who were par­tial­ly ob­scured could move to the front.

That's Edgar Bones… broth­er of Amelia Bones, they got him and his fam­ily, too, he was a great wiz­ard… Stur­gis Pod­more, blimey, he looks young… Caradoc Dear­born, van­ished six months af­ter this, we nev­er found his body… Ha­grid, of course, looks ex­act­ly the same as ev­er… El­phias Doge, you've met him, I'd for­got­ten he used to wear that stupid hat… Gideon Prewett, it took five Death Eaters to kill him and his broth­er Fabi­an, they fought like heroes… budge along, budge along…'

The lit­tle peo­ple in the pho­to­graph jos­tled among them­selves and those hid­den right at the back ap­peared at the fore­front of the pic­ture.

That's Dum­ble­dore's broth­er Aber­forth, on­ly time I ev­er met him, strange bloke… that's Dor­cas Mead­owes, Volde­mort killed her per­son­al­ly… Sir­ius, when he still had short hair… and… there you go, thought that would in­ter­est you!'

Har­ry's heart turned over. His moth­er and fa­ther were beam­ing up at him, sit­ting on ei­ther side of a small, wa­tery-​eyed man whom Har­ry recog­nised at once as Worm­tail, the one who had be­trayed his par­ents' where­abouts to Volde­mort and so helped to bring about their deaths.

'Eh?' said Moody.

Har­ry looked up in­to Moody's heav­ily scarred and pit­ted face. Ev­ident­ly Moody was un­der the im­pres­sion he had just giv­en Har­ry a bit of a treat.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, once again at­tempt­ing to grin. 'Er… lis­ten, I've just re­mem­bered, I haven't packed my…'

He was spared the trou­ble of in­vent­ing an ob­ject he had not packed. Sir­ius had just said, 'What's that you've got there, Mad-​Eye?' and Moody had turned to­wards him. Har­ry crossed the kitchen, slipped through the door and up the stairs be­fore any­one could call him back.

He did not know why it had been such a shock; he had seen pic­tures of his par­ents be­fore, af­ter all, and he had met Worm­tail but to have them sprung on him like that, when he was least ex­pect­ing it… no one would like that, he thought an­gri­ly…

And then, to see them sur­round­ed by all those oth­er hap­py faces… Ben­jy Een­wick, who had been found in bits, and Gideon Prewett, who had died like a hero, and the Long­bot­toms, who had been tor­tured in­to mad­ness… all wav­ing hap­pi­ly out of the pho­to­graph for­ev­er more, not know­ing that they were doomed… well, Moody might find that in­ter­est­ing… he, Har­ry, found it dis­turb­ing…

Har­ry tip­toed up the stairs in the hall past the stuffed elf-​heads, glad to be on his own again, but as he ap­proached the first land­ing he heard nois­es. Some­one was sob­bing in the draw­ing room.

'Hel­lo?' Har­ry said.

There was no an­swer but the sob­bing con­tin­ued. He climbed the re­main­ing stairs two at a time, walked across the land­ing and opened the draw­ing-​room door.

Some­one was cow­er­ing against the dark wall, her wand in her hand, her whole body shak­ing with sobs. Sprawled on the dusty old car­pet in a patch of moon­light, clear­ly dead, was Ron.

All the air seemed to van­ish from Har­ry's lungs; he felt as though he were falling through the floor; his brain turned icy cold - Ron dead, no, it couldn't be -

But wait a mo­ment, it couldn't be - Ron was down­stairs -

HAR­RY Po i TER

'Mrs. Weasley?' Har­ry croaked.

'R - r - rid­diku­lus!' Mrs. Weasley sobbed, point­ing her shak­ing wand at Ron's body.

Crack.

Ron's body turned in­to Bill's, spread-​ea­gled on his back, his eyes wide open and emp­ty. Mrs. Weasley sobbed hard­er than ev­er.

'R - rid­diku­lus!' she sobbed again.

Crack.

Mr Weasley's body re­placed Bill's, his glass­es askew, a trick­le of blood run­ning down his face.

'No!' Mrs. Weasley moaned. 'No… rid­diku­lus] Rid­diku­lus! RID-​DlKU­LUSr

Crack. Dead twins. Crack. Dead Per­cy. Crack. Dead Har­ry…

'Mrs. Weasley, just get out of here!' shout­ed Har­ry, star­ing down at his own dead body on the floor. 'Let some­one else -'

'What's go­ing on?'

Lupin had come run­ning in­to the room, close­ly fol­lowed by Sir­ius, with Moody stump­ing along be­hind them. Lupin looked from Mrs. Weasley to the dead Har­ry on the tloor and seemed to un­der­stand in an in­stant. Pulling out his own wand, he said, very ürm­ly and clear­ly:

'Rid­diku­lus!'

Har­ry's body van­ished. A sil­very orb hung in the air over the spot where it had lain. Lupin waved his wand once more and the orb van­ished in a puff of smoke.

'Oh - oh - oh!' gulped Mrs. Weasley, and she broke in­to a storm of cry­ing, her face in her hands.

'Mol­ly,' said Lupin bleak­ly, walk­ing over to her. 'Mol­ly don't…"

Next sec­ond, she was sob­bing her heart out on Lupin's shoul­der.

'Mol­ly, it was just a Bog­gart,' he said sooth­ing­ly, pat­ting her on the head, 'just a stupid Bog­gart…'

'I see them d-d - dead all the time!' Mrs. Weasley moaned in­to his shoul­der. 'All the't -'t - time! I d - d - dream about it…'

Sir­ius was star­ing at the patch of car­pet where the Bog­gart, pre­tend­ing to be Har­ry's body, had lain. Moody was look­ing at Har­ry, who avoid­ed his gaze. He had a fun­ny feel­ing Moody's mag­ical eye had fol­lowed him all the way out of the kitchen.

THE­WOFS OF MRS. WEASLEY

'D-d - don't tell Arthur,' Mrs. Weasley was gulp­ing now, mop­ping her eyes fran­ti­cal­ly with her cuffs. 'I d - d - don't want him to know… be­ing sil­ly…'

Lupin hand­ed her a hand­ker­chief and she blew her nose.

'Har­ry, I'm so sor­ry. What must you think of me?' she said shak­ily. 'Not even able to get rid of a Bog­gart…'

'Don't be stupid,' said Har­ry, try­ing to smile.

'I'm just's -'s - so wor­ried,' she said, tears spilling out of her eyes again. 'Half the f - f - fam­ily's in the Or­der, it'll b - b - be a mir­acle if we all come through this… and P - P - Per­cys not talk­ing to us… what if some­thing d-d - dread­ful hap­pens and we've nev­er in - in - made it up with him? And what's go­ing to hap­pen if Arthur and I get killed, who's g - g - go­ing to look af­ter Ron and Gin­ny?'

'Mol­ly that's enough; said Lupin firm­ly. 'This isn't like last time. The Or­der are bet­ter pre­pared, we've got a head start, we know what Volde­mor­ts up to -'

Mrs. Weasley gave a lit­tle squeak of fright at the sound of the name.

'Oh, Mol­ly, come on, it's about time you got used to hear­ing his name - look, I can't promise no one's go­ing to get hurt, no­body can promise that, but we're much bet­ter off than we were last time. You weren't in the Or­der then, you don't un­der­stand. Last time we were out­num­bered twen­ty to one by the Death Eaters and they were pick­ing us off one by one…'

Har­ry thought of the pho­to­graph again, of his par­ents' beam­ing faces. He knew Moody was still watch­ing him.

'Don't wor­ry about Per­cy' said Sir­ius abrupt­ly. 'He'll come round. It's on­ly a mat­ter of time be­fore Volde­mort moves in­to the open; once he does, the whole Min­istry's go­ing to be beg­ging us to for­give them. And I'm not sure I'll be ac­cept­ing their apol­ogy,' he added bit­ter­ly.

'And as for who's go­ing to look af­ter Ron and Gin­ny if you and Arthur died,' said Lupin, smil­ing slight­ly, 'what do you think we'd do, let them starve?'

Mrs. Weasley smiled tremu­lous­ly.

'Be­ing sil­ly,' she mut­tered again, mop­ping her eyes.

But Har­ry, clos­ing his bed­room door be­hind him some ten

HAR­RY Pun ER

min­utes lat­er, could not think Mrs. Weasley sil­ly. He could still see his par­ents beam­ing up at him from the tat­tered old pho­to­graph, un­aware that their lives, like so many of those around them, were draw­ing to a close. The im­age of the Bog­gart pos­ing as the corpse of each mem­ber of Mrs. Weasley's fam­ily in turn kept flash­ing be­fore his eyes.

With­out warn­ing, the scar on his fore­head seared with pain again and his stom­ach churned hor­ri­bly.

'Cut it out,' he said firm­ly, rub­bing the scar as the pain re­ced­ed.

'First sigh of mad­ness, talk­ing to your own head,' said a sly voice from the emp­ty pic­ture on the wall.

Har­ry ig­nored it. He felt old­er than he had ev­er felt in his lite and it seemed ex­traor­di­nary to him that bare­ly an hour ago he had been wor­ried about a joke shop and who had got a pre­fects badge.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 10 - Luna Lovegood


Har­ry had a trou­bled nights sleep. His par­ents wove in and out of his dreams, nev­er speak­ing; Mrs. Weasley sobbed over Kreach­ers dead body, watched by Ron and Hermione who were wear­ing crowns, and yet again Har­ry found him­self walk­ing down a cor­ri­dor end­ing in a locked door. He awoke abrupt­ly with his scar prick­ling to find Ron al­ready dressed and talk­ing to him.

'… bet­ter hur­ry up, Mum's go­ing bal­lis­tic, she says we're go­ing to miss the tram

There was a lot of com­mo­tion in the house. From what he heard as he dressed at top speed, Har­ry gath­ered that Fred and George had be­witched their trunks to fly down­stairs to save the both­er of car­ry­ing them, with the re­sult that they had hur­tled straight in­to Gin­ny and knocked her down two flights of stairs in­to the hall; Mrs. Black and Mrs. Weasley were both scream­ing at the top of their voic­es.

'- COULD HAVE DONE HER A SE­RI­OUS IN­JURY, YOU ID­IOTS -'

'- FILTHY HALF-​BREEDS, BE­SMIRCH­ING THE HOUSE OF MY FA­THERS -'

Hermione came hur­ry­ing in­to the room look­ing flus­tered, just as Har­ry was putting on his train­ers. Hed­wig was sway­ing on her shoul­der, and she was car­ry­ing a squirm­ing Crook­shanks in her arms.

'Mum and Dad just sent Hed­wig back.' The owl flut­tered oblig­ing­ly over and perched on top of her cage. 'Are you ready yet?'

'Near­ly. Is Gin­ny all right?' Har­ry asked, shov­ing on his glass­es.

'Mrs. Weasley's patched her up,' said Hermione. 'But now Mad-

Eye's com­plain­ing that we can't leave un­less Stur­gis Pod­more's here, oth­er­wise the guard will be one short.'

'Guard?' said Har­ry. 'We have to go to King's Cross with a guard?'

'You have to go to King's Cross with a guard,' Hermione cor­rect­ed him.

'Why?' said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. 'I thought Volde­mort was sup­posed to be ly­ing low, or are you telling me he's go­ing to jump out from be­hind a dust­bin to try and do me in?'

'I don't know, it's just what Mad-​Eye says,' said Hermione dis­tract­ed­ly, look­ing at her watch, 'but if we don't leave soon we're def­inite­ly go­ing to miss the train…'

WILL YOU LOT GET DOWN HERE NOW, PLEASE!' Mrs. Weasley bel­lowed and Hermione jumped as though scald­ed and hur­ried out of the room. Har­ry seized Hed­wig, stuffed her un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly in­to her cage, and set off down­stairs af­ter Hermione, drag­ging his trunk.

Mrs. Black's por­trait was howl­ing with rage but no­body was both­er­ing to close the cur­tains over her; all the noise in the hall was bound to rouse her again, any­way.

'Har­ry, you're to come with me and Tonks,' shout­ed Mrs. Weasley - over the re­peat­ed screech­es of 'MUD­BLOODS! SCUM! CREA­TURES OF DIRT!' - 'Leave your trunk and your owl, Alas­tor's go­ing to deal with the lug­gage… oh, for heav­en's sake, Si­nus, Dum­ble­dore said no!'

A bear-​like black dog had ap­peared at Har­ry's side as he was clam­ber­ing over the var­ious trunks clut­ter­ing the hall to get to Mrs. Weasley.

'Oh hon­est­ly…' said Mrs. Weasley de­spair­ing­ly. 'Well, on your own head be it!'

She wrenched open the front door and stepped out in­to the weak Septem­ber sun­light. Har­ry and the dog fol­lowed her. The door slammed be­hind them and Mrs. Blacks screech­es were cut off in­stant­ly.

Where's Tonks?' Har­ry said, look­ing round as they went down the stone steps of num­ber twelve, which van­ished the mo­ment they reached the pave­ment.

'She's wait­ing for us just up here,' said Mrs. Weasley stiffly, avert­ing her eyes from the lol­lop­ing black dog be­side Har­ry.

An old wom­an greet­ed them on the cor­ner. She had tight­ly curled grey hair and wore a pur­ple hat shaped like a pork pie.

'Wotch­er, Har­ry,' she said, wink­ing. 'Bet­ter hur­ry up, hadn't we, Mol­ly?' she added, check­ing her watch.

'I know, I know,' moaned Mrs. Weasley, length­en­ing her stride, 'but Mad-​Eye want­ed to wait for Stur­gis… if on­ly Arthur could have got us cars from the Min­istry again… but Fudge won't let him bor­row so much as an emp­ty ink bot­tle these days… how Mug­gles can stand trav­el­ling with­out mag­ic

But the great black dog gave a joy­ful bark and gam­bolled around them, snap­ping at pi­geons and chas­ing its own tail. Har­ry couldn't help laugh­ing. Sir­ius had been trapped in­side for a very long time. Mrs. Weasley pursed her lips in an al­most Aunt Petu­nia-​ish way.

It took them twen­ty min­utes to reach King's Cross on foot and noth­ing more event­ful hap­pened dur­ing that time than Sir­ius scar­ing a cou­ple of cats for Har­ry's en­ter­tain­ment. Once in­side the sta­tion they lin­gered ca­su­al­ly be­side the bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten un­til the coast was clear, then each of them leaned against it in turn and fell eas­ily through on to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters, where the Hog­warts Ex­press stood belch­ing sooty steam over a plat­form packed with de­part­ing stu­dents and their fam­ilies. Har­ry in­haled the fa­mil­iar smell and felt his spir­its soar… he was re­al­ly go­ing back…

'1 hope the oth­ers make it in time,' said Mrs. Weasley anx­ious­ly, star­ing be­hind her at the wrought-​iron arch span­ning the plat­form, through which new ar­rivals would come.

'Nice dog, Har­ry!' called a tall boy with dread­locks.

'Thanks, Lee,' said Har­ry, grin­ning, as Sir­ius wagged his tail fran­ti­cal­ly.

'Oh good,' said Mrs. Weasley, sound­ing re­lieved, 'here's Alas­tor with the lug­gage, look…'

A porter's cap pulled low over his mis­matched eyes, Moody came limp­ing through the arch­way push­ing a trol­ley load­ed with their trunks.

'All OK,' he mut­tered to Mrs. Weasley and Tonks, 'don't think we were fol­lowed…'

Sec­onds lat­er, Mr Weasley emerged on to the plat­form with Ron and Hermione. They had al­most un­load­ed Moody's lug­gage trol­ley when Fred, George and Gin­ny turned up with Lupin.

'No trou­ble?' growled Moody.

'Noth­ing,' said Lupin.

Til still be re­port­ing Stur­gis to Dum­ble­dore,' said Moody, 'that's the sec­ond time he's not turned up in a week. Get­ting as un­re­li­able as Mundun­gus.'

'Well, look af­ter your­selves,' said Lupin, shak­ing hands all round. He reached Har­ry last and gave him a clap on the shoul­der. 'You too. Har­ry. Be care­ful.'

'Yeah, keep your head down and your eyes peeled,' said Moody, shak­ing Har­ry's hand too. 'And don't for­get, all of you - care­ful what you put in writ­ing. If in doubt, don't put it in a let­ter at all.'

'It's been great meet­ing all of you,' said Tonks, hug­ging Hermione and Gin­ny 'We'll see you soon, I ex­pect.'

A warn­ing whis­tle sound­ed; the stu­dents still on the plat­form start­ed hur­ry­ing on to the train.

'Quick, quick,' said Mrs. Weasley dis­tract­ed­ly, hug­ging them at ran­dom and catch­ing Har­ry twice. 'Write… be good… if you've for­got­ten any­thing we'll send it on… on to the train, now, hur­ry…"

For one brief mo­ment, the great black dog reared on to its hind legs and placed its front paws on Har­ry's shoul­ders, but Mrs. Weasley shoved Har­ry away to­wards the train door, hiss­ing, 'For heav­en's sake, act more like a dog, Sir­ius!'

'See you!' Har­ry called out of the open win­dow as the train be­gan to move, while Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny waved be­side him. The fig­ures of Tonks, Lupin, Moody and Mr and Mrs. Weasley shrank rapid­ly but the black dog was bound­ing along­side the win­dow, wag­ging its tail; blurred peo­ple on the plat­form were laugh­ing to see it chas­ing the train, then they round­ed a bend, and Sir­ius was gone.

'He shouldn't have come with us,' said Hermione in a wor­ried voice.

'Oh, light­en up,' said Ron, 'he hasn't seen day­light for months, poor bloke.'

'Well,' said Fred, clap­ping his hands to­geth­er, 'can't stand around chat­ting all day, we've got busi­ness to dis­cuss with Lee. See you lat­er,' and he and George dis­ap­peared down the cor­ri­dor to the right.

The train was gath­er­ing still more speed, so that the hous­es out­side the win­dow flashed past, and they swayed where they stood.

'Shall we go and find a com­part­ment, then?' Har­ry asked.

Ron and Hermione ex­changed looks.

'Er,' said Ron.

'We're - well - Ron and I are sup­posed to go in­to the pre­fect car­riage,' Hermione said awk­ward­ly.

Ron wasn't look­ing at Har­ry; he seemed to have be­come in­tense­ly in­ter­est­ed in the fin­ger­nails on his left hand.

'Oh,' said Har­ry. 'Right. Fine.'

'I don't think we'll have to stay there all jour­ney,' said Hermione quick­ly. 'Our let­ters said we just get in­struc­tions from the Head Boy and Girl and then pa­trol the cor­ri­dors from time to time.'

'Fine,' said Har­ry again. 'Well, I - I might see you lat­er, then.'

'Yeah, def­inite­ly,' said Ron, cast­ing a shifty, anx­ious look at Har­ry. 'It's a pain hav­ing to go down there, I'd rather - but we have to -I mean, I'm not en­joy­ing it, I'm not Per­cy,' he fin­ished de­fi­ant­ly.

'I know you're not,' said Har­ry and he grinned. But as Hermione and Ron dragged their trunks, Crook­shanks and a caged Pig­wid­geon off to­wards the en­gine end of the train, Har­ry felt an odd sense of loss. He had nev­er trav­elled on the Hog­warts Ex­press with­out Ron.

'Come on,' Gin­ny told him, 'if we get a move on we'll be able to save them places.'

'Right,' said Har­ry, pick­ing up Hed­wig's cage in one hand and the han­dle of his trunk in the oth­er. They strug­gled off down the cor­ri­dor, peer­ing through the glass-​pan­elled doors in­to the com­part­ments they passed, which were al­ready full. Har­ry could not help notic­ing that a lot of peo­ple stared back at him with great in­ter­est and that sev­er­al of them nudged their neigh­bours and point­ed him out. Af­ter he had met this be­haviour in five con­sec­utive car­riages he re­mem­bered that the Dai­ly Prophet had been telling its read­ers all sum­mer what a ly­ing show-​off he was. He won­dered dul­ly whether the peo­ple now star­ing and whis­per­ing be­lieved the sto­ries.

In the very last car­riage they met Neville Long­bot­tom, Har­ry's fel­low fifth-​year Gryffind­or, his round face shin­ing with the ef­fort of pulling his trunk along and main­tain­ing a one-​hand­ed grip on his strug­gling toad, Trevor.

'Hi, Har­ry' he pant­ed. 'Hi, Gin­ny… ev­ery­where's full… I can't find a seat…'

'What are you talk­ing about?' said Gin­ny, who had squeezed past Neville to peer in­to the com­part­ment be­hind him. There's room in this one, there's on­ly Loony Love­good in here —'

Neville mum­bled some­thing about not want­ing to dis­turb any­one.

'Don't be sil­ly,' said Gin­ny, laugh­ing, 'she's all right.'

She slid the door open and pulled her trunk in­side. Har­ry and Neville fol­lowed.

'Hi, Lu­na,' said Gin­ny, 'is it OK if we take these seats?'

The girl be­side the win­dow looked up. She had strag­gly, waist-​length, dirty blonde hair, very pale eye­brows and pro­tu­ber­ant eyes that gave her a per­ma­nent­ly sur­prised look. Har­ry knew at once why Neville had cho­sen to pass this com­part­ment by. The girl gave off an au­ra of dis­tinct dot­ti­ness. Per­haps it was the fact that she had stuck her wand be­hind her left ear for safe­keep­ing, or that she had cho­sen to wear a neck­lace of But­ter­beer corks, or that she was read­ing a mag­azine up­side-​down. Her eyes ranged over Neville and came to rest on Har­ry. She nod­ded.

Thanks,' said Gin­ny, smil­ing at her.

Har­ry and Neville stowed the three trunks and Hed­wig's cage in the lug­gage rack and sat down. Lu­na watched them over her up­side-​down mag­azine, which was called The Quib­bler. She did not seem to need to blink as much as nor­mal hu­mans. She stared and stared at Har­ry, who had tak­en the seat op­po­site her and now wished he hadn't.

'Had a good sum­mer, Lu­na?' Gin­ny asked.

'Yes,' said Lu­na dream­ily, with­out tak­ing her eyes off Har­ry. 'Yes, it was quite en­joy­able, you know. You're Har­ry Pot­ter,' she added.

'1 know I am,' said Har­ry.

Neville chuck­led. Lu­na turned her pale eyes on him in­stead.

'And I don't know who you are.'

'I'm no­body,' said Neville hur­ried­ly.

'No you're not,' said Gin­ny sharply. 'Neville Long­bot­tom - Lu­na Love good. Lu­na's in my year, but in Raven­claw.'

'Wit be­yond mea­sure is man's great­est trea­sure,' said Lu­na in a singsong voice.

She raised her up­side-​down mag­azine high enough to hide her face and fell silent. Har­ry and Neville looked at each oth­er with their eye­brows raised. Gin­ny sup­pressed a gig­gle.

The train rat­tled on­wards, speed­ing them out in­to open coun­try. It was an odd, un­set­tled sort of day; one mo­ment the car­riage was full of sun­light and the next they were pass­ing be­neath omi­nous­ly grey clouds.

'Guess what I got for my birth­day?' said Neville.

'An­oth­er Re­mem­brall?' said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the mar­ble-​like de­vice Neville's grand­moth­er had sent him in an ef­fort to im­prove his abysmal mem­ory.

'No,' said Neville. 'I could do with one, though, I lost the old one ages ago… no, look at this…"

He dug the hand that was not keep­ing a firm grip on Trevor in­to his school­bag and af­ter a lit­tle bit of rum­mag­ing pulled out what ap­peared to be a small grey cac­tus in a pot, ex­cept that it was cov­ered with what looked like boils rather than spines.

'Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia,' he said proud­ly.

Har­ry stared at the thing. It was pul­sat­ing slight­ly, giv­ing it the rather sin­is­ter look of some dis­eased in­ter­nal or­gan.

'It's re­al­ly, re­al­ly rare,' said Neville, beam­ing. 'I don't know it there's one in the green­house at Hog­warts, even. I can't wait to show it to Pro­fes­sor Sprout. My Great Un­cle Al­gie got it for me in As­syr­ia. I'm go­ing to see if I can breed from it.'

Har­ry knew that Neville's favourite sub­ject was Her­bol­ogy but for the life of him he could not see what he would want with this stunt­ed lit­tle plant.

'Does it - er - do any­thing?' he asked.

'Loads of stuff!' said Neville proud­ly. 'It's got an amaz­ing de­fen­sive mech­anism. Here, hold Trevor for me…'

He dumped the toad in­to Har­ry's lap and took a quill from his school­bag. Lu­na Love­good's pop­ping eyes ap­peared over the top of her up­side-​down mag­azine again, to watch what Neville was do­ing. Neville held the Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia up to his eyes, his tongue be­tween his teeth, chose his spot, and gave the plant a sharp prod with the tip of his quill.

Liq­uid squirt­ed from ev­ery boil on the plant; thick, stink­ing, dark green jets of it. They hit the ceil­ing, the win­dows, and spat­tered Lu­na Love­good's mag­azine; Gin­ny, who had flung her arms up in front of her face just in time, mere­ly looked as though she was wear­ing a slimy green hat, but Har­ry, whose hands had been busy pre­vent­ing Trevor's es­cape, re­ceived a face­ful. It smelled like ran­cid ma­nure.

Neville, whose face and tor­so were al­so drenched, shook his head to get the worst out of his eyes.

'S - sor­ry,' he gasped. 'I haven't tried that be­fore… didn't re­alise it would be quite so… don't wor­ry, though, Stinksap's not poi­sonous,' he added ner­vous­ly, as Har­ry spat a mouth­ful on to the floor.

At that pre­cise mo­ment the door of their com­part­ment slid open.

'Oh… hel­lo, Har­ry,' said a ner­vous voice. 'Urn… bad time?'

Har­ry wiped the lens­es of his glass­es with his Trevor-​free hand. A very pret­ty girl with long, shiny black hair was stand­ing in the door­way smil­ing at him: Cho Chang, the Seek­er on the Raven­claw Quid­ditch team.

'Oh… hi,' said Har­ry blankly.

'Urn…" said Cho. 'Well… just thought I'd say hel­lo… bye then.'

Rather pink in the face, she closed the door and de­part­ed. Har­ry slumped back in his seat and groaned. He would have liked Cho to dis­cov­er him sit­ting with a group of very cool peo­ple laugh­ing their heads off at a joke he had just told; he would not have cho­sen to be sit­ting with Neville and Loony Love­good, clutch­ing a toad and drip­ping in Stinksap.

'Nev­er mind,' said Gin­ny brac­ing­ly. 'Look, we can eas­ily get rid of all this.' She pulled out her wand. 'Scourgi­fy!'

The Stinksap van­ished.

'Sor­ry,' said Neville again, in a small voice.

Ron and Hermione did not turn up for near­ly an hour, by which time the food trol­ley had al­ready gone by. Har­ry, Gin­ny and Neville had fin­ished their pump­kin pasties and were busy swap­ping Choco­late Frog Cards when the com­part­ment door slid open and they walked in, ac­com­pa­nied by Crook­shanks and a shril­ly hoot­ing Pig­wid­geon in his cage.

'I'm starv­ing,' said Ron, stow­ing Pig­wid­geon next to Hed­wig, grab­bing a Choco­late Frog from Har­ry and throw­ing him­self in­to the seat next to him. He ripped open the wrap­per, bit off the frog's head and leaned back with his eyes closed as though he had had a very ex­haust­ing morn­ing.

'Well, there are two fifth-​year pre­fects from each house,' said Hermione, look­ing thor­ough­ly dis­grun­tled as she took her seat. 'Boy and girl from each.'

'And guess who's a Slytherin pre­fect?' said Ron, still with his eyes closed.

'Mal­foy,' replied Har­ry at once, cer­tain his worst fear would be con­firmed.

'Course,' said Ron bit­ter­ly, stuff­ing the rest of the Frog in­to his mouth and tak­ing an­oth­er.

'And that com­plete cow Pan­sy Parkin­son,' said Hermione vi­cious­ly. 'How she got to be a pre­fect when she's thick­er than a con­cussed troll…'

'Who are Huf­flepuff's?' Har­ry asked.

'Ernie Macmil­lan and Han­nah Ab­bott,' said Ron thick­ly.

'And An­tho­ny Gold­stein and Pad­ma Patil for Raven­claw,' said Hermione.

'You went to the Yule Ball with Pad­ma Patil,' said a vague voice.

Ev­ery­one turned to look at Lu­na Love­good, who was gaz­ing un­blink­ing­ly at Ron over the top of The Quib­bler. He swal­lowed his mouth­ful of Frog.

'Yeah, I know I did,' he said, look­ing mild­ly sur­prised.

'She didn't en­joy it very much,' Lu­na in­formed him. 'She doesn't think you treat­ed her very well, be­cause you wouldn't dance with her. I don't think I'd have mind­ed,' she added thought­ful­ly, '1 don't like danc­ing very much.'

She re­treat­ed be­hind The Quib­bler again. Ron stared at the cov­er with his mouth hang­ing open for a few sec­onds, then looked around at Gin­ny for some kind of ex­pla­na­tion, but Gin­ny had stuffed her knuck­les in her mouth to stop her­self gig­gling. Ron shook his head, be­mused, then checked his watch.

'We're sup­posed to pa­trol the cor­ri­dors ev­ery so of­ten,' he told Har­ry and Neville, 'and we can give out pun­ish­ments if peo­ple are mis­be­hav­ing. I can't wait to get Crabbe and Goyle for some­thing

'You're not sup­posed to abuse your po­si­tion, Ron!' said Hermione sharply.

'Yeah, right, be­cause Mal­foy won't abuse it at all,' said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly.

'So you're go­ing to de­scend to his lev­el?'

'No, I'm just go­ing to make sure I get his mates be­fore he gets mine.'

'For heav­en's sake, Ron -'

Til make Goyle do lines, it'll kill him, he hates writ­ing,' said Ron hap­pi­ly. He low­ered his voice to Goyle's low grunt and, screw­ing up his face in a look of pained con­cen­tra­tion, mimed writ­ing in midair. 'I… must… not… look…like… a… ba­boon's… back­side.'

Ev­ery­one laughed, but no­body laughed hard­er than Lu­na Love­good. She let out a scream of mirth that caused Hed­wig to wake up and flap her wings in­dig­nant­ly and Crook­shanks to leap up in­to the lug­gage rack, hiss­ing. Lu­na laughed so hard her mag­azine slipped out of her grasp, slid down her legs and on to the floor.

That was fun­ny!'

Her promi­nent eyes swam with tears as she gasped for breath, star­ing at Ron. Ut­ter­ly non­plussed, he looked around at the oth­ers, who were now laugh­ing at the ex­pres­sion on Ron's face and at the lu­di­crous­ly pro­longed laugh­ter of Lu­na Love­good, who was rock­ing back­wards and for­wards, clutch­ing her sides.

'Are you tak­ing the mick­ey?' said Ron, frown­ing at her.

'Ba­boon's… back­side!' she choked, hold­ing her ribs.

Ev­ery­one else was watch­ing Lu­na laugh­ing, but Har­ry glanc­ing at the mag­azine on the floor, no­ticed some­thing that made him dive for it. Up­side-​down it had been hard to tell what the pic­ture on the front was, but Har­ry now re­alised it was a fair­ly bad car­toon of Cor­nelius Fudge; Har­ry on­ly recog­nised him be­cause of the lime-​green bowler hat. One of Fudge's hands was clenched around a bag of gold; the oth­er hand was throt­tling a gob­lin. The car­toon was cap­tioned: How Far Will Fudge Go to Gain Gringotts?

Be­neath this were list­ed the ti­tles of oth­er ar­ti­cles in­side the mag­azine.

Cor­rup­tion in the Quid­ditch League:

How the Tor­na­dos are Tak­ing Con­trol

Se­crets of the An­cient Runes Re­vealed

Sir­ius Black: Vil­lain or Vic­tim?

'Can I have a look at this?' Har­ry asked Lu­na ea­ger­ly.

She nod­ded, still gaz­ing at Ron, breath­less with laugh­ter.

Har­ry opened the mag­azine and scanned the in­dex. Un­til this mo­ment he had com­plete­ly for­got­ten the mag­azine Kings­ley had hand­ed Mr Weasley to give to Sir­ius, but it must have been this edi­tion of The Quib­bler.

He found the page, and turned ex­cit­ed­ly to the ar­ti­cle.

This, too, was il­lus­trat­ed by a rather bad car­toon; in fact, Har­ry would not have known it was sup­posed to be Sir­ius if it hadn't been cap­tioned. Sir­ius was stand­ing on a pile of hu­man bones with his wand out. The head­line on the ar­ti­cle said:

SIR­IUS - BLACK AS HE'S PAINT­ED?

No­to­ri­ous mass mur­der­er or in­no­cent singing sen­sa­tion?

Har­ry had to read this first sen­tence sev­er­al times be­fore he was con­vinced that he had not mis­un­der­stood it. Since when had Sir­ius been a singing sen­sa­tion?

For four­teen years Sir­ius Black has been be­lieved guilty of the mass mur­der of twelve in­no­cent Mug­gles and one wiz­ard. Black's au­da­cious es­cape from Azk­aban two years ago has led to the widest man­hunt ev­er con­duct­ed by the Min­istry of Mag­ic. None of us has ev­er ques­tioned that he de­serves to be re­cap­tured and hand­ed back to the De­men­tors.

BUT DOES HE?

Startling new ev­idence has re­cent­ly come to light that Sir­ius

Black may not have com­mit­ted the crimes for which he was sent to Azk­aban. In fact, says Doris Purkiss, of 18 Acan­thia Way , Lit­tle Nor­ton, Black may not even have been present at the killings.

'What peo­ple don't re­alise is that Sir­ius Black is a false name,' says Mrs. Purkiss. 'The man peo­ple be­lieve to be Sir­ius Black is ac­tu­al­ly Stub­by Board­man, lead singer of pop­ular singing group The Hob­gob­lins, who re­tired from pub­lic life af­ter be­ing struck on the ear by a turnip at a con­cert in Lit­tle Nor­ton Church Hall near­ly fif­teen years ago. I recog­nised him the mo­ment I saw his pic­ture in the pa­per. Now, Stub­by couldn't pos­si­bly have com­mit­ted those crimes, be­cause on the day in ques­tion he hap­pened to be en­joy­ing a ro­man­tic can­dlelit din­ner with me. I have writ­ten to the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic and am ex­pect­ing him to give Stub­by, alias -Sir­ius, a full par­don any day now.'

Har­ry fin­ished read­ing and stared at the page in dis­be­lief. Per­haps it was a joke, he thought, per­haps the mag­azine of­ten print­ed spoof Hems. He flicked back a few pages and found the piece on Fudge.

Cor­nelius Fudge, the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, de­nied that he had any plans to take over the run­ning of the Wiz­ard­ing Bank, Gringotts, when he was elect­ed Min­is­ter for Mag­ic five years ago. Fudge has al­ways in­sist­ed that he wants noth­ing more than to 'co-​op­er­ate peace­ful­ly' with the guardians of our gold.

BUT DOES HE?

Sources close to the Min­is­ter have re­cent­ly dis­closed that Fudge's dear­est am­bi­tion is to seize con­trol of the gob­lin gold sup­plies and that he will not hes­itate to use force if need be.

Tt wouldn't be the first time, ei­ther,' said a Min­istry in­sid­er. 'Cor­nelius “Gob­lin-​Crush­er” Fudge, that's what his friends call him. If you could hear him when he thinks no one's lis­ten­ing, oh, he's al­ways talk­ing about the gob­lins he's had done in; he's had them drowned, he's had them dropped off build­ings, he's had them poi­soned, he's had them cooked in pies…"

Har­ry did not read any fur­ther. Fudge might have many faults but Har­ry found it ex­treme­ly hard to imag­ine him or­der­ing gob­lins to be cooked in pies. He flicked through the rest of the mag­azine. Paus­ing ev­ery few pages, he read: an ac­cu­sa­tion that the Tut­shill Tor­na­dos were win­ning the Quid­ditch League by a com­bi­na­tion of black­mail, il­le­gal broom-​tam­per­ing and tor­ture; an in­ter­view with a wiz­ard who claimed to have flown to the moon on a Clean­sweep Six and brought back a bag of moon frogs to prove it; and an ar­ti­cle on an­cient runes which at least ex­plained why Lu­na had been read­ing The Quib­bler up­side-​down. Ac­cord­ing to the mag­azine, if you turned the runes on their heads they re­vealed a spell to make your en­emy's ears turn in­to kumquats. In fact, com­pared to the^rest of the ar­ti­cles in The Quib­bler, the sug­ges­tion that Sir­ius might re­al­ly be the lead singer of The Hob­gob­lins was quite sen­si­ble.

'Any­thing good in there?' asked Ron as Har­ry closed the mag­azine.

'Of course not,' said Hermione scathing­ly, be­fore Har­ry could an­swer. The Quib­bler's rub­bish, ev­ery­one knows that.'

'Ex­cuse me,' said Lu­na; her voice had sud­den­ly lost its dreamy qual­ity. 'My fa­ther's the ed­itor.'

'I - oh,' said Hermione, look­ing em­bar­rassed. 'Well… it's got some in­ter­est­ing… I mean, it's quite…"

'I'll have it back, thank you,' said Lu­na cold­ly, and lean­ing for­wards she snatched it out of Har­ry's hands. Rif­fling through it to page fifty-​sev­en, she turned it res­olute­ly up­side-​down again and dis­ap­peared be­hind it, just as the com­part­ment door opened for the third time.

Har­ry looked around; he had ex­pect­ed this, but that did not make the sight of Dra­co Mal­foy smirk­ing at him from be­tween his cronies Crabbe and Goyle any more en­joy­able-.

'What?' he said ag­gres­sive­ly, be­fore Mal­foy could open his mouth.

'Man­ners, Pot­ter, or I'll have to give you a de­ten­tion,' drawled Mal­foy, whose sleek blond hair and point­ed chin were just like his fa­thers. 'You see, 1, un­like you, have been made a pre­fect, which means that I, un­like you, have the pow­er to hand out pun­ish­ments.'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, 'but you, un­like me,-are a git, so get out and leave us alone.'

Ron, Hermione, Gin­ny and Neville laughed. Mal­foy's lip curled.

'Tell me, how does it feel be­ing sec­ond-​best to Weasley, Pot­ter?' he asked.

'Shut up, Mal­foy,' said Hermione sharply.

'I seem to have touched a nerve,' said Mal­foy, smirk­ing. 'Well, just watch your­self, Pot­ter, be­cause I'll be dog­ging your foot­steps in case you step out of line.'

'Get out!' said Hermione, stand­ing up.

Snig­ger­ing, Mal­foy gave Har­ry a last ma­li­cious look and de­part­ed, with Crabbe and Goyle lum­ber­ing along in his wake. Hermione slammed the com­part­ment door be­hind them and turned to look at Har­ry, who knew at once that she, like him, had reg­is­tered what Mal­foy had said and been just as un­nerved by it.

'Chuck us an­oth­er Frog,' said Ron, who had clear­ly no­ticed noth­ing.

Har­ry could not talk freely in front of Neville and Lu­na. He ex­changed an­oth­er ner­vous look with Hermione, then stared out of the win­dow.

He had thought Sir­ius com­ing with him to the sta­tion was a bit of a laugh, but sud­den­ly it seemed reck­less, if not down­right dan­ger­ous… Hermione had been right… Sir­ius should not have come. What if Mr Mal­foy had no­ticed the black dog and told Dra­co? What if he had de­duced that the Weasleys, Lupin, Tonks and Moody knew where Sir­ius was hid­ing? Or had Mal­foy's use of the word 'dog­ging' been a co­in­ci­dence?

The weath­er re­mained un­de­cid­ed as they trav­elled fur­ther and fur­ther north. Rain spat­tered the win­dows in a half-​heart­ed way, then the sun put in a fee­ble ap­pear­ance be­fore clouds drift­ed over it once more. When dark­ness fell and lamps came on in­side the car­riages, Lu­na rolled up The Quib­bler, put it care­ful­ly away in her bag and took to star­ing at ev­ery­one in the com­part­ment in­stead.

Har­ry was sit­ting with his fore­head pressed against the train win­dow, try­ing to get a first dis­tant glimpse of Hog­warts, but it was a moon­less night and the rain-​streaked win­dow was grimy.

'We'd bet­ter change,' said Hermione at last, and all of them opened their trunks with dif­fi­cul­ty and pulled on their school robes. She and Ron pinned their pre­fect badges care­ful­ly to their chests. Har­ry saw Ron check­ing his re­flec­tion in the black win­dow.

At last, the train be­gan to slow down and they heard the usu­al rack­et up and down it as ev­ery­body scram­bled to get their lug­gage and pets as­sem­bled, ready to get off. As Ron and Hermione were sup­posed to su­per­vise all this, they dis­ap­peared from the car­riage again, leav­ing Har­ry and the oth­ers to look af­ter Crook­shanks and Pig­wid­geon.

Til car­ry that owl, if you like,' said Lu­na to Har­ry, reach­ing out for Pig­wid­geon as Neville stowed Trevor care­ful­ly in an in­side pock­et.

'Oh - er - thanks,' said Har­ry, hand­ing her the cage and hoist­ing Hed­wig's more se­cure­ly in­to his arms.

They shuf­fled out of the com­part­ment feel­ing the first sting of the night air on their faces as they joined the crowd in the cor­ri­dor. Slow­ly, they moved to­wards the doors. Har­ry could smell the pine trees that lined the path down to the lake. He stepped down on to the plat­form and looked around, lis­ten­ing for the fa­mil­iar call of 'firs'-years over 'ere… firs'-years…'

But it did not come. In­stead, a quite dif­fer­ent voice, a brisk fe­male one, was call­ing out, "First-​years line up over here, please! All first-​years to me!'

A lantern came swing­ing to­wards Har­ry and by its light he saw the promi­nent chin and se­vere hair­cut of Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, the witch who had tak­en over Ha­grid's Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons for a while the pre­vi­ous year.

'Where's Ha­grid?' he said out loud.

'I don't know,' said Gin­ny, 'but we'd bet­ter get out of the way, we're block­ing the door.'

'Oh, yeah…'

Har­ry and Gin­ny be­came sep­arat­ed as they moved off along the plat­form and out through the sta­tion. Jos­tled by the crowd, Har­ry squint­ed through the dark­ness for a glimpse of Ha­grid; he had to be here, Har­ry had been re­ly­ing on it - see­ing Ha­grid again was one of the things he'd been look­ing for­ward to most. But there was no sign of him.

He can't have left, Har­ry told him­self as he shuf­fled slow­ly through a nar­row door­way on to the road out­side with the rest of the crowd. He's just got a cold or some­thing…

He looked around for Ron or Hermione, want­ing to know what they thought about the reap­pear­ance of Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, but nei­ther of them was any­where near him, so he al­lowed him­self to be shunt­ed for­wards on to the dark rain-​washed road out­side Hogsmeade Sta­tion.

Here stood the hun­dred or so horse­less stage­coach­es that al­ways took the stu­dents above first year up to the cas­tle. Har­ry glanced quick­ly at them, turned away to keep a look­out for Ron and Hermione, then did a dou­ble-​take.

The coach­es were no longer horse­less. There were crea­tures stand­ing be­tween the car­riage shafts. If he had had to give them a name, he sup­posed he would have called them hors­es, though there was some­thing rep­til­ian about them, too. They were com­plete­ly flesh­less, their black coats cling­ing to their skele­tons, of which ev­ery bone was vis­ible. Their heads were drag­onish, and their pupil-​less eyes white and star­ing. Wings sprout­ed from each with­er - vast, black leath­ery wings that looked as though they ought to be­long to gi­ant bats. Stand­ing still and qui­et in the gath­er­ing gloom, the crea­tures looked eerie and sin­is­ter. Har­ry could not un­der­stand why the coach­es were be­ing pulled by these hor­ri­ble hors­es when they were quite ca­pa­ble of mov­ing along by them­selves.

'Where's Pig?' said Ron's voice, right be­hind Har­ry.

'That Lu­na girl was car­ry­ing him,' said Har­ry, turn­ing quick­ly, ea­ger to con­sult Ron about Ha­grid. 'Where d'you reck­on -'

'- Ha­grid is? I dun­no,' said Ron, sound­ing wor­ried. 'He'd bet­ter be OK…'

A short dis­tance away, Dra­co Mal­foy, fol­lowed by a small gang of cronies in­clud­ing Crabbe, Goyle and Pan­sy Parkin­son, was push­ing some timid-​look­ing sec­ond-​years out of the way so that he and his friends could get a coach to them­selves. Sec­onds lat­er, Hermione emerged pant­ing from the crowd.

'Mal­foy was be­ing ab­so­lute­ly foul to a first-​year back there. I swear I'm go­ing to re­port him, he's on­ly had his badge three min­utes and he's us­ing it to bul­ly peo­ple worse than ev­er… where's Crook­shanks?'

'Gin­ny's got him,' said Har­ry. There she is…'

Gin­ny had just emerged from the crowd, clutch­ing a squirm­ing Crook­shanks.

Thanks,' said Hermione, re­liev­ing Gin­ny of the cat. 'Come on, let's get a car­riage to­geth­er be­fore they all fill up…"

'I haven't got Pig yet!' Ron said, but Hermione was al­ready head­ing off to­wards the near­est un­oc­cu­pied coach. Har­ry re­mained be­hind with Ron.

'What are those things, d'you reck­on?' he asked Ron, nod­ding at the hor­ri­ble hors­es as the oth­er stu­dents surged past them.

'What things?'

Those horse -'

Lu­na ap­peared hold­ing Pig­wid­geon's cage in her arms; the tiny owl was twit­ter­ing ex­cit­ed­ly as usu­al.

'Here you are,' she said. 'He's a sweet lit­tle owl, isn't he?'

'Er… yeah… he's all right,' said Ron gruffly. 'Well, come on then, let's get in… what were you say­ing, Har­ry?'

'I was say­ing, what are those horse things?' Har­ry said, as he, Ron and Lu­na made for the car­riage in which Hermione and Gin­ny were al­ready sit­ting.

'What horse things?'

The horse things pulling the car­riages!' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly. They were, af­ter all, about three feet from the near­est one; it was watch­ing them with emp­ty white eyes. Ron, how­ev­er, gave Har­ry a per­plexed look.

'What are you talk­ing about?'

'I'm talk­ing about - look!'

Har­ry grabbed Ron's arm and wheeled him about so that he was face to face with the winged horse. Ron stared straight at it for a sec­ond, then looked back at Har­ry.

'What am I sup­posed to be look­ing at?'

'At the - there, be­tween the shafts! Har­nessed to the coach! It's right there in front -'

But as Ron con­tin­ued to look be­mused, a strange thought oc­curred to Har­ry.

'Can't… can't you see them?'

'See what?'

'Can't you see what's pulling the car­riages?'

Ron looked se­ri­ous­ly alarmed now.

'Are you feel­ing all right, Har­ry?'

'I… yeah…'

Har­ry felt ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered. The horse was there in front of him, gleam­ing solid­ly in the dim light is­su­ing from the sta­tion win­dows be­hind them, vapour ris­ing from its nos­trils in the chilly night air. Yet, un­less Ron was fak­ing - and it was a very fee­ble joke if he was - Ron could not see it at all.

'Shall we get in, then?' said Ron un­cer­tain­ly, look­ing at Har­ry as though wor­ried about him.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'Yeah, go on…'

'It's all right,' said a dreamy voice from be­side Har­ry as Ron van­ished in­to the coach's dark in­te­ri­or. 'You're not go­ing mad or any­thing. I can see them, too.'

'Can you?' said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, turn­ing to Lu­na. He could see the bat-​winged hors­es re­flect­ed in her wide sil­very eyes.

'Oh, yes,' said Lu­na, 'I've been able to see them ev­er since my first day here. They've al­ways pulled the car­riages. Don't wor­ry. You're just as sane as I am:

Smil­ing faint­ly, she climbed in­to the musty in­te­ri­or of the car­riage af­ter Ron. Not al­to­geth­er re­as­sured, Har­ry fol­lowed her.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 11 - The Sorting Hat's New Song


Har­ry did not want to tell the oth­ers that he and Lu­na were hav­ing the same hal­lu­ci­na­tion, if that was what it was, so he said noth­ing more about the hors­es as he sal down in­side the car­riage and slammed the door be­hind him. Nev­er­the­less, he could not help watch­ing the sil­hou­ettes of the hors­es mov­ing be­yond the win­dow.

'Did ev­ery­one see that Grub­bly-​Plank wom­an?' asked Gin­ny. 'What's she do­ing back here? Ha­grid can't have left, can he?'

Til be quite glad if he has,' said Lu­na, 'he isn't a very good teach­er, is he?'

'Yes, he is!' said Har­ry, Ron and Gin­ny an­gri­ly.

Har­ry glared at Hermione. She cleared her throat and quick­ly said, 'Erin… yes… he's very good.'

'Well, we in Raven­claw think he's a bit of a joke,' said Lu­na, un­lazed.

'You've got a rub­bish sense of hu­mour then,' Ron snapped, as the wheels be­low them creaked in­to mo­tion.

Lu­na did not seem per­turbed by Ron's rude­ness; on the con­trary, she sim­ply watched him for a while as though he were a mild­ly in­ter­est­ing tele­vi­sion pro­gramme.

Rat­tling and sway­ing, the car­riages moved in con­voy up the road. When they passed be­tween the tall stone pil­lars topped with winged boars on ei­ther side of the gates to the school grounds, Har­ry leaned for­wards to try and see whether there were any lights on in Ha­grid's cab­in by the For­bid­den For­est, but the grounds were in com­plete dark­ness. Hog­warts Cas­tle, how­ev­er, loomed ev­er

clos­er: a tow­er­ing mass of tur­rets, jet black against the dark sky, here and there a win­dow blaz­ing fiery bright above them.

The car­riages jin­gled to a halt near the stone steps lead­ing up to the oak front doors and Har­ry got out of the car­riage first. He turned again to look for lit win­dows down by the For­est, but there was def­inite­ly no sign of life with­in Ha­grids cab­in. Un­will­ing­ly, be­cause he had half-​hoped they would have van­ished, he turned his eyes in­stead up­on the strange, skele­tal crea­tures stand­ing qui­et­ly in the chill night air, their blank white eyes gleam­ing.

Har­ry had once be­fore had the ex­pe­ri­ence of see­ing some­thing that Ron could not, but that had been a re­flec­tion in a mir­ror, some­thing much more in­sub­stan­tial than a hun­dred very sol­id-​look­ing beasts strong enough to pull a fleet of car­riages. If Lu­na was to be be­lieved, the beasts had al­ways been there but in­vis­ible. Why, then, could Har­ry sud­den­ly see them, and why could Ron not?

'Are you com­ing or what?' said Ron be­side him.

'Oh… yeah,' said Har­ry quick­ly and they joined the crowd hur­ry­ing up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle.

The En­trance Hall was ablaze with torch­es and echo­ing with foot­steps as the stu­dents crossed the flagged stone floor for the dou­ble doors to the right, lead­ing to the Great Hall and the start-​of-​term feast.

The four long house ta­bles in the Great Hall were fill­ing up un­der the star­less black ceil­ing, which was just like the sky they could glimpse through the high win­dows. Can­dles float­ed in midair all along the ta­bles, il­lu­mi­nat­ing the sil­very ghosts who were dot­ted about the Hall and the faces of the stu­dents talk­ing ea­ger­ly, ex­chang­ing sum­mer news, shout­ing greet­ings at friends from oth­er hous­es, eye­ing one an­oth­er's new hair­cuts and robes. Again, Har­ry no­ticed peo­ple putting their heads to­geth­er to whis­per as he passed; he grit­ted his teeth and tried to act as though he nei­ther no­ticed nor cared.

Lu­na drift­ed away from them at the Raven­claw ta­ble. The mo­ment they reached Gryffind­ors, Gin­ny was hailed by some fel­low fourth-​years and left to sit with them; Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Neville found seats to­geth­er about halfway down the ta­ble be­tween Near­ly

Head­less Nick, the Gryffind­or house ghost, and Par­vati Patil and Laven­der Brown, the last two of whom gave Har­ry airy, over­ly-​friend­ly greet­ings that made him quite sure they had stopped talk­ing about him a split sec­ond be­fore. He had more im­por­tant things to wor­ry about, how­ev­er: he was look­ing over the stu­dents' heads to the staff ta­ble that ran along the top wall of the Hall.

'He's not there.'

Ron and Hermione scanned the staff ta­ble too, though there was no re­al need; Ha­grid's size made him in­stant­ly ob­vi­ous in any line­up.

'He can't have left,' said Ron, sound­ing slight­ly anx­ious.

'Of course he hasn't,' said Har­ry firm­ly.

'You don't think he's… hurt, or any­thing, do you?' said Hermione un­easi­ly.

'No,' said Har­ry at once.

'But where is he, then?'

There was a pause, then Har­ry said very qui­et­ly, so that Neville, Par­vati and Laven­der could not hear, 'Maybe he's not back yet. You know - from his mis­sion - the thing he was do­ing over the sum­mer for Dum­ble­dore.'

'Yeah… yeah, that'll be it,' said Ron, sound­ing re­as­sured, but Hermione bit her lip, look­ing up and down the staff ta­ble as though hop­ing for some con­clu­sive ex­pla­na­tion of Ha­grid's ab­sence.

'Who's that?' she said sharply, point­ing to­wards the mid­dle of the staff ta­ble.

Har­ry's eyes fol­lowed hers. They lit first up­on Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, sit­ting in his high-​backed gold­en chair at the cen­tre of the long staff ta­ble, wear­ing deep-​pur­ple robes scat­tered with sil­very stars and a match­ing hat. Dum­ble­dore's head was in­clined to­wards the wom­an sit­ting next to him, who was talk­ing in­to his ear. She looked, Har­ry thought, like some­body's maid­en aunt: squat, with short, curly, mouse-​brown hair in which she had placed a hor­ri­ble pink Al­ice band that matched the fluffy pink cardi­gan she wore over her robes. Then she turned her face slight­ly to take a sip from her gob­let and he saw, with a shock of recog­ni­tion, a pal­lid, toad­like face and a pair of promi­nent, pouchy eyes.

'It's that Um­bridge wom­an!'

'Who?' said Hermione.

'She was at my hear­ing, she works for Fudge!'

'Nice cardi­gan,' said Ron, smirk­ing.

'She works for Fudge!' Hermione re­peat­ed, frown­ing. 'What on earth's she do­ing here, then?'

'Dun­no…'

Hermione scanned the staff ta­ble, her eyes nar­rowed.

'No,' she mut­tered, 'no, sure­ly not…'

Har­ry did not un­der­stand what she was talk­ing about but did not ask; his at­ten­tion had been caught by Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank who had just ap­peared be­hind the staff ta­ble; she worked her way along to the very end and took the seat that ought to have been Ha­grids. That meant the first-​years must have crossed the lake and reached the cas­tle, and sure enough, a few sec­onds lat­er, the doors from the En­trance Hall opened. A long line of scared-​look­ing first-​years en­tered, led by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was car­ry­ing a stool on which sat an an­cient wiz­ard's hat, heav­ily patched and darned with a wide rip near the frayed brim.

The buzz of talk in the Great Hall fad­ed away. The first-​years lined up in front of the staff ta­ble fac­ing the rest of the stu­dents, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall placed the stool care­ful­ly in front of them, then stood back.

The first-​years' faces glowed pale­ly in the can­dle­light. A small boy right in the mid­dle of the row looked as though he was trem­bling. Har­ry re­called, fleet­ing­ly, how ter­ri­fied he had felt when he had stood there, wait­ing for the un­known test that would de­ter­mine to which house he be­longed.

The whole school wait­ed with bat­ed breath. Then the rip near the hat's brim opened wide like a mouth and the Sort­ing Hat burst in­to song:

In times of old when I was new And Hog­warts bare­ly start­ed The founders of our no­ble school Thought nev­er to be part­ed: Unit­ed by a com­mon goal,

They had the self­same yearn­ing,

To make the world's best mag­ic school

And pass along their learn­ing.

'To­geth­er we will build and teach!'

The four good friends de­cid­ed

And nev­er did they dream that they

Might some day be di­vid­ed,

For were there such friends any­where

As Slytherin and Gryffind­or?

Un­less it was the sec­ond pair

Of Huf­flepuff and Raven­claw?

So how could it have gone so wrong?

How could such friend­ships fail?

Why, I was there and so can tell

The whole sad, sor­ry tale.

Said Slytherin, 'We'll teach just those

Whose an­ces­try is purest.'

Said Raven­claw, 'We'll teach those whose

In­tel­li­gence is surest.'

Said Gryffind­or, 'We'll teach all those

With brave deeds to their name,'

Said Huf­flepuff, Til teach the lot,

And treat them just the same.'

These dif­fer­ences caused lit­tle strife

When first they came to light,

For each of the four founders had

A house in which they might

Take on­ly those they want­ed, so,

For in­stance, Slytherin

Took on­ly pure-​blood wiz­ards

Of great cun­ning, just like him,

And on­ly those of sharpest mind

Were taught by Raven­claw

While the bravest and the bold­est

Went to dar­ing Gryffind­or.

Good Huf­flepuff, she took the rest,

And taught them all she knew,

Thus the hous­es and their founders

Re­tained friend­ships firm and true.

So Hog­warts worked in har­mo­ny

For sev­er­al hap­py years,

But then dis­cord crept among us

Feed­ing on our faults and fears.

The hous­es that, like pil­lars four,

Had once held up our school,

Now turned up­on each oth­er and,

Di­vid­ed, sought to rule.

And for a while it seemed the school

Must meet an ear­ly end,

What with du­elling and with jight­ing

And the clash of friend on friend

And at last there came a morn­ing

When old Slytherin de­part­ed

And though the fight­ing then died out

He left us quite down­heart­ed.

And nev­er since the founders four

Were whit­tled down to three

Have the hous­es been unit­ed

As they once were meant to be.

And now the Sort­ing Hat is here

And you all know the score:

I sort you in­to hous­es

Be­cause that is what I'm for,

But this year I'll go fur­ther,

Lis­ten close­ly to my song:

Though con­demned I am to split you

Still I wor­ry that it's wrong,

Though / must ful­fil my du­ty

And must quar­ter ev­erv year

Still I won­der whether Sort­ing

May not bring the end I fear.

Oh, know the per­ils, read the signs,

The warn­ing his­to­ry shows,

For our Hog­warts is in dan­ger

From ex­ter­nal, dead­ly foes

And we must unite in­side her

Or we'll crum­ble from with­in

I have told you, I have warned you…

Let the Sort­ing now be­gin.

The Hat be­came mo­tion­less once more; ap­plause broke out, though it was punc­tured, for the first time in Har­rys mem­ory, with mut­ter­ing and whis­pers. All across the Great Hall stu­dents were ex­chang­ing re­marks with their neigh­bours, and Har­ry, clap­ping along with ev­ery­one else, knew ex­act­ly what they were talk­ing about.

'Branched out a bit this year, hasn't it?' said Ron, his eye­brows raised.

Too right it has,' said Har­ry.

The Sort­ing Hat usu­al­ly con­fined it­self to de­scrib­ing the dif­fer­ent qual­ities looked for by each of the four Hog­warts hous­es and its own role in Sort­ing them. Har­ry could not re­mem­ber it ev­er try­ing to give the school ad­vice be­fore.

'I won­der if it's ev­er giv­en warn­ings be­fore?' said Hermione, sound­ing slight­ly anx­ious.

'Yes, in­deed,' said Near­ly Head­less Nick knowl­edge­ably, lean­ing across Neville to­wards her (Neville winced; it was very un­com­fort­able to have a ghost lean through you). The Hat feels it­self hon­our-​bound to give the school due warn­ing when­ev­er il feels -

But Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was wait­ing to read out the list of first-​years' names, was giv­ing the whis­per­ing stu­dents the sort of look that scorch­es. Near­ly Head­less Nick placed a see-​through fin­ger to his lips and sat prim­ly up­right again as the mut­ter­ing came to an abrupt end. With a last frown­ing look that swept the four house ta­bles, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall low­ered her eyes to her long piece of parch­ment and called out the first name.

'Aber­crom­bie, Eu­an.'

The ter­ri­fied-​look­ing boy Har­ry had no­ticed ear­li­er stum­bled for­wards and put the Hat on his head; it was on­ly pre­vent­ed from falling right down to his shoul­ders by his very promi­nent ears. The Hat con­sid­ered for a mo­ment, then the rip near the brim opened again and shout­ed:

'Gryffind­or!'

Har­ry clapped loud­ly with the rest of Gryffind­or house as Eu­an Aber­crom­bie stag­gered to their ta­ble and sat down, look­ing as though he would like very much to sink through the floor and nev­er be looked at again.

Slow­ly, the long line of first-​years thinned. In the paus­es be­tween the names and the Sort­ing Hat's de­ci­sions, Har­ry could hear Rons stom­ach rum­bling loud­ly. Fi­nal­ly, 'Zeller, Rose' was Sort­ed in­to Huf­flepuff, and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall picked up the Hat and stool and marched them away as Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore rose to his feet.

What­ev­er his re­cent bit­ter feel­ings had been to­wards his Head­mas­ter, Har­ry was some­how soothed to see Dum­ble­dore stand­ing be­fore them all. Be­tween the ab­sence of Ha­grid and the pres­ence of those drag­onish hors­es, he had felt that his re­turn to Hog­warts, so long an­tic­ipat­ed, was full of un­ex­pect­ed sur­pris­es, like jar­ring notes in a fa­mil­iar song. But this, at least, was how it was sup­posed to be: their Head­mas­ter ris­ing to greet them all be­fore the start-​of-​term feast.

To our new­com­ers,' said Dum­ble­dore in a ring­ing voice, his arms stretched wide and a beam­ing smile on his lips, 'wel­come! To our old hands - wel­come back! There is a time for speech-​mak­ing, but this is not it. Tuck in!'

There was an ap­pre­cia­tive laugh and an out­break of ap­plause as Dum­ble­dore sat down neat­ly and threw his long beard over his shoul­der so as to keep it out of the way of his plate - for food had ap­peared out of nowhere, so that the five long ta­bles were groan­ing un­der joints and pies and dish­es of veg­eta­bles, bread and sauces and flagons of pump­kin juice.

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Ron, with a kind of groan of long­ing, and he seized the near­est plate of chops and be­gan pil­ing them on to his plate, watched wist­ful­ly by Near­ly Head­less Nick.

'What were you say­ing be­fore the Sort­ing?' Hermione asked the ghost. 'About the Hat giv­ing warn­ings?'

'Oh, yes,' said Nick, who seemed glad of a rea­son to turn away from Ron, who was now eat­ing roast pota­toes with al­most in­de­cent en­thu­si­asm. 'Yes, I have heard the Hat give sev­er­al warn­ings be­fore, al­ways at times when it de­tects pe­ri­ods of great dan­ger for the school. And al­ways, of course, its ad­vice is the same: stand to­geth­er, be strong from with­in.'

'Ow kun­nit nofe skusin dan­ger ifzat?' said Ron.

His mouth was so full Har­ry thought it was quite an achieve­ment for him to make any noise at all.

'I beg your par­don?' said Near­ly Head­less Nick po­lite­ly, while Hermione looked re­volt­ed. Ron gave an enor­mous swal­low and said, 'How can it know if the school's in dan­ger if it's a Hat?'

'I have no idea,' said Near­ly Head­less Nick. 'Of course, it lives in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice, so I dare­say it picks things up there.'

'And it wants all the hous­es to be friends?' said Har­ry, look­ing over at the Slytherin ta­ble, where Dra­co Mal­foy was hold­ing court. 'Fat chance.'

'Well, now, you shouldn't take that at­ti­tude,' said Nick re­prov­ing­ly. 'Peace­ful co-​op­er­ation, that's the key. We ghosts, though we be­long to sep­arate hous­es, main­tain links of friend­ship. In spite of the com­pet­itive­ness be­tween Gryffind­or and Slytherin, I would nev­er dream of seek­ing an ar­gu­ment with the Bloody Baron.'

'On­ly be­cause you're ter­ri­fied of him,' said Ron.

Near­ly Head­less Nick looked high­ly af­front­ed.

Ter­ri­fied? I hope I, Sir Nicholas de Mim­sy-​Por­ping­ton, have nev­er been guilty of cow­ardice in my life! The no­ble blood that runs in my veins -'

'What blood?' asked Ron. 'Sure­ly you haven't still got -?'

'Its a fig­ure of speech!' said Near­ly Head­less Nick, now so an­noyed his head was trem­bling omi­nous­ly on his par­tial­ly sev­ered neck. 'I as­sume I am still al­lowed to en­joy the use of whichev­er words I like, even if the plea­sures of eat­ing and drink­ing are de­nied me! But I am quite used to stu­dents pok­ing fun at my death, I as­sure you!'

'Nick, he wasn't re­al­ly laugh­ing at you!' said Hermione, throw­ing a fu­ri­ous look at Ron.

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, Ron's mouth was packed to ex­plod­ing point again and all he could man­age was 'Node id­dum eent­up sechew,' which Nick did not seem to think con­sti­tut­ed an ad­equate apol­ogy. Ris­ing in­to the air, he straight­ened his feath­ered hat and swept away from them to the oth­er end of the ta­ble, com­ing to rest be­tween the Creevey broth­ers, Col­in and Den­nis.

'Well done, Ron,' snapped Hermione.

'What?' said Ron in­dig­nant­ly, hav­ing man­aged, fi­nal­ly, to swal­low his tood. 'I'm not al­lowed to ask a sim­ple ques­tion?'

'Oh, for­get it,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, and the pair of them spent the rest of the meal in huffy si­lence.

Har­ry was too used to their bick­er­ing to both­er try­ing to rec­on­cile them; he felt it was a bet­ter use of his time to eat his way steadi­ly through his steak and kid­ney pie, then a large plate­ful of his favourite trea­cle tart.

When all the stu­dents had fin­ished eat­ing and the noise lev­el in the Hall was start­ing to creep up­wards again, Dum­ble­dore got to his feet once more. Talk­ing ceased im­me­di­ate­ly as all turned to lace the Head­mas­ter. Har­ry was feel­ing pleas­ant­ly drowsy now. His lour-​poster bed was wait­ing some­where above, won­der­ful­ly warm and soft…

'Well, now that we are all di­gest­ing an­oth­er mag­nif­icent feast, I beg a few mo­ments of your at­ten­tion for the usu­al start-​of-​term no­tices,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'First-​years ought to know that the For­est in the grounds is out-​of-​bounds to stu­dents - and a few of our old­er stu­dents ought to know by now, too.' (Har­ry, Ron and Hermione ex­changed smirks.)

'Mr Filch, the care­tak­er, has asked me, for what he tells me is the lour-​hun­dred-​and-​six­ty-​sec­ond time, to re­mind you all that mag­ic is not per­mit­ted in cor­ri­dors be­tween class­es, nor are a num­ber of oth­er things, all of which can be checked on the ex­ten­sive list now fas­tened to Mr Filch's of­fice door.

'We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to wel­come back Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, who will be tak­ing Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons; we are al­so de­light­ed to in­tro­duce Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, our new De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er.'

There was a round of po­lite but fair­ly un­en­thu­si­as­tic ap­plause, dur­ing which Har­ry, Ron and Hermione ex­changed slight­ly pan­icked looks; Dum­ble­dore had not said for how long Grub­bly-​Plank would be teach­ing.

Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, Try­outs for the house Quid­ditch teams will take place on the -'

He broke off, look­ing en­quir­ing­ly at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. As she was not much taller stand­ing than sit­ting, there was a mo­ment when no­body un­der­stood why Dum­ble­dore had stopped talk­ing, but then Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge cleared her throat, 'Hem, hem,' and it be­came clear that she had got to her feet and was in­tend­ing to make a speech.

Dum­ble­dore on­ly looked tak­en aback for a mo­ment, then he sat down smart­ly and looked alert­ly at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge as though he de­sired noth­ing bet­ter than to lis­ten to her talk. Oth­er mem­bers of staff were not as adept at hid­ing their sur­prise. Pro­fes­sor Sprout's eye­brows had dis­ap­peared in­to her fly­away hair and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's mouth was as thin as Har­ry had ev­er seen it. No new teach­er had ev­er in­ter­rupt­ed Dum­ble­dore be­fore. Many of the stu­dents were smirk­ing; this wom­an ob­vi­ous­ly did not know how things were done at Hog­warts.

Thank you, Head­mas­ter,' Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sim­pered, 'for those kind words of wel­come.'

Her voice was high-​pitched, breathy and lit­tle-​girl­ish and, again, Har­ry felt a pow­er­ful rush of dis­like that he could not ex­plain to him­self; all he knew was that he loathed ev­ery­thing about her, from her stupid voice to her fluffy pink cardi­gan. She gave an­oth­er lit­tle throat-​clear­ing cough ('hem, hem') and con­tin­ued.

'Well, it is love­ly to be back at Hog­warts, I must say!' She smiled, re­veal­ing very point­ed teeth. 'And to see such hap­py lit­tle faces look­ing up at me!'

Har­ry glanced around. None of the faces he could see looked hap­py. On the con­trary, they all looked rather tak­en-​aback at be­ing ad­dressed as though they were five years old.

'I am very much look­ing for­ward to get­ting to know you all and I'm sure we'll be very good friends!'

Stu­dents ex­changed looks at this; some of them were bare­ly con­ceal­ing grins.

'I'll be her friend as long as I don't have to bor­row that cardi­gan,' Par­vati whis­pered to Laven­der, and both of them lapsed in­to silent gig­gles.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge cleared her throat again ('hem, hem'), but when she con­tin­ued, some of the breath­iness had van­ished from her voice. She sound­ed much more busi­nesslike and now her words had a dull learned-​by-​heart sound to them.

The Min­istry of Mag­ic has al­ways con­sid­ered the ed­uca­tion of young witch­es and wiz­ards to be of vi­tal im­por­tance. The rare gifts with which you were born may come to noth­ing if not nur­tured and honed by care­ful in­struc­tion. The an­cient skills unique to the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty must be passed down the gen­er­ations lest we lose them tor ev­er. The trea­sure trove of mag­ical knowl­edge amassed by our an­ces­tors must be guard­ed, re­plen­ished and pol­ished by those who have been called to the no­ble pro­fes­sion of teach­ing.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge paused here and made a lit­tle bow to her fel­low staff mem­bers, none of whom bowed back to her. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's dark eye­brows had con­tract­ed so that she looked pos­itive­ly hawk­like, and Har­ry dis­tinct­ly saw her ex­change a sig­nif­icant glance with Pro­fes­sor Sprout as Um­bridge gave an­oth­er lit­tle 'hem, hem' and went on with her speech.

Ev­ery head­mas­ter and head­mistress o( Hog­warts has brought some­thing new to the weighty task of gov­ern­ing this his­toric school, and that is as it should be, lor with­out progress there will be stag­na­tion and de­cay. There again, progress for progress's sake must be dis­cour­aged, for our tried and test­ed tra­di­tions of­ten re­quire no tin­ker­ing. A bal­ance, then, be­tween old and new, be­tween per­ma­nence and change, be­tween tra­di­tion and in­no­va­tion…"

Har­ry lound his at­ten­tive­ness ebbing, as though his brain was slip­ping in and out of tune. The qui­et that al­ways filled the Hall when Dum­ble­dore was speak­ing was break­ing up as stu­dents put their heads to­geth­er, whis­per­ing and gig­gling. Over on the Raven­claw ta­ble Cho Chang was chat­ting an­imat­ed­ly with her friends. A few seats along from Cho, Lu­na Love­good had got out The Quib­bler again. Mean­while, at the Huf­flepuff ta­ble Ernie Macmil­lan was one of the few still star­ing at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, but he was glassy-​eyed and Har­ry was sure he was on­ly pre­tend­ing to lis­ten in an at­tempt to live up to the new pre­fect's badge gleam­ing on his chest.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge did not seem to no­tice the rest­less­ness of her au­di­ence. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that a full-​scale ri­ot could have bro­ken out un­der her nose and she would have ploughed on with her speech. The teach­ers, how­ev­er, were still lis­ten­ing very at­ten­tive­ly, and Hermione seemed to be drink­ing in ev­ery word Um­bridge spoke, though, judg­ing by her ex­pres­sion, they were not at all to her taste.

'… be­cause some changes will be for the bet­ter, while oth­ers will come, in the full­ness of time, to be recog­nised as er­rors of judge­ment. Mean­while, some old habits will be re­tained, and right­ly so, where­as oth­ers, out­mod­ed and out­worn, must be aban­doned. Let us move for­ward, then, in­to a new era of open­ness, ef­fec­tive­ness and ac­count­abil­ity, in­tent on pre­serv­ing what ought to be pre­served, per­fect­ing what needs to be per­fect­ed, and prun­ing wher­ev­er we find prac­tices that ought to be pro­hib­it­ed.'

She sat down. Dum­ble­dore clapped. The staff fol­lowed his lead, though Har­ry no­ticed that sev­er­al of them brought their hands to­geth­er on­ly once or twice be­fore stop­ping. A few stu­dents joined in, but most had been tak­en un­awares by the end of the speech, not hav­ing lis­tened to more than a few words of it, and be­fore they could start ap­plaud­ing prop­er­ly, Dum­ble­dore had stood up again.

Thank you very much, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, that was most il­lu­mi­nat­ing,' he said, bow­ing to her. 'Now, as I was say­ing, Quid­ditch try­outs will be held…"

'Yes, it cer­tain­ly was il­lu­mi­nat­ing,' said Hermione in a low voice.

'You're not telling me you en­joyed it?' Ron said qui­et­ly, turn­ing a glazed face to­wards Hermione. That was about the dullest speech I've ev­er heard, and I grew up with Per­cy.'

'I said il­lu­mi­nat­ing, not en­joy­able,' said Hermione. 'It ex­plained a lot.'

'Did it?' said Har­ry in sur­prise. 'Sound­ed like a load of waf­fle to me.'

There was some im­por­tant stuff hid­den in the waf­fle,' said Hermione grim­ly.

'Was there?' said Ron blankly.

'How about: “progress for progress's sake must be dis­cour­aged”? How about: “prun­ing wher­ev­er we find prac­tices that ought to be pro­hib­it­ed”?'

'Well, what does that mean?' said Ron im­pa­tient­ly.

Til tell you what it means,' said Hermione through grit­ted teeth. 'It means the Min­istry's in­ter­fer­ing at Hog­warts.'

There was a great clat­ter­ing and bang­ing all around them; Dum­ble­dore had ob­vi­ous­ly just dis­missed the school, be­cause ev­ery­one was stand­ing up ready to leave the Hall. Hermione jumped up, look­ing flus­tered.

'Ron, we're sup­posed to show the first-​years where to go!'

'Oh yeah,' said Ron, who had ob­vi­ous­ly for­got­ten. 'Hey - hey, you lot! Midgets!'

'Ron!'

'Well, they are, they're titchy…'

'I know, but you can't call them midgets! - First-​years!' Hermione called com­mand­ing­ly along the ta­ble. This way, please!'

A group of new stu­dents walked shy­ly up the gap be­tween the Gryffind­or and Huf­flepuff ta­bles, all of them try­ing hard not to lead the group. They did in­deed seem very small; Har­ry was sure he had not ap­peared that young when he had ar­rived here. He grinned at them. A blond boy next to Eu­an Aber­crom­bie looked pet­ri­fied; he nudged Eu­an and whis­pered some­thing in his ear. Eu­an Aber­crom­bie looked equal­ly fright­ened and stole a hor­ri­fied look at Har­ry, who felt the grin slide off his face like Stinksap.

'See you lat­er,' he said dul­ly to Ron and Hermione and he made his way out of the Great Hall alone, do­ing ev­ery­thing he could to ig­nore more whis­per­ing, star­ing and point­ing as he passed. He kept his eyes fixed ahead as he wove his way through the crowd in the En­trance Hall, then he hur­ried up the mar­ble stair­case, took a cou­ple of con­cealed short cuts and had soon left most of the crowds be­hind.

He had been stupid not to ex­pect this, he thought an­gri­ly as he walked through the much emp­ti­er up­stairs cor­ri­dors. Of course ev­ery­one was star­ing at him; he had emerged from the Tri­wiz­ard maze two months pre­vi­ous­ly clutch­ing the dead body of a fel­low stu­dent and claim­ing to have seen Lord Volde­mort re­turn to pow­er. There had not been time last term to ex­plain him­self be­fore they'd all had to go home - even if he had felt up to giv­ing the whole school a de­tailed ac­count of the ter­ri­ble events in that grave­yard.

Har­ry had reached the end of the cor­ri­dor to the Gryffind­or com­mon room and come to a halt in front of the por­trait of the Fat La­dy be­fore he re­alised that he did not know the new pass­word.

'Er…' he said glum­ly, star­ing up at the Fat La­dy, who smoothed the folds of her pink satin dress and looked stern­ly back at him.

'No pass­word, no en­trance,' she said lofti­ly.

'Har­ry, I know it!' Some­one pant­ed up be­hind him and he turned to see Neville jog­ging to­wards him. 'Guess what it is? I'm ac­tu­al­ly go­ing to be able to re­mem­ber it for once -' He waved the stunt­ed lit­tle cac­tus he had shown them on the train. 'Mim­bu­lus mim­ble-​toni­fl!'

'Cor­rect,' said the Fat La­dy, and her por­trait swung open to­wards them like a door, re­veal­ing a cir­cu­lar hole in the wall be­hind, through which Har­ry and Neville now climbed.

The Gryffind­or com­mon room looked as wel­com­ing as ev­er, a cosy cir­cu­lar tow­er room full of di­lap­idat­ed squashy arm­chairs and rick­ety old ta­bles. A fire was crack­ling mer­ri­ly in the grate and a few peo­ple were warm­ing their hands by it be­fore go­ing up to their dor­mi­to­ries; on the oth­er side of the room Fred and George Weasley were pin­ning some­thing up on the no­tice­board. Har­ry waved good­night to them and head­ed straight for the door to the boys' dor­mi­to­ries; he was not in much of a mood for talk­ing at the mo­ment. Neville fol­lowed him.

Dean Thomas and Sea­mus Finni­gan had reached the dor­mi­to­ry first and were in the pro­cess of cov­er­ing the walls be­side their beds with posters and pho­tographs. They had been talk­ing as Har­ry pushed open the door but stopped abrupt­ly the mo­ment they saw him. Har­ry won­dered whether they had been talk­ing about him, then whether he was be­ing para­noid.

'Hi,' he said, mov­ing across to his own trunk and open­ing it.

'Hey, Har­ry,' said Dean, who was putting on a pair of py­ja­mas in the West Ham colours. 'Good hol­iday?'

'Not bad,' mut­tered Har­ry, as a true ac­count of his hol­iday would have tak­en most of the night to re­late and he could not face it. 'You?'

'Yeah, it was OK,' chuck­led Dean. 'Bet­ter than Sea­mus's, any­way, he was just telling me.'

'Why, what hap­pened, Sea­mus?' Neville asked as he placed his Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia ten­der­ly on his bed­side cab­inet.

Sea­mus did not an­swer im­me­di­ate­ly; he was mak­ing rather a meal of en­sur­ing that his poster of the Ken­mare Kestrels Quid­ditch team was quite straight. Then he said, with his back still turned to Har­ry, 'Me mam didn't want me to come back.'

'What?' said Har­ry, paus­ing in the act of pulling off his robes.

'She didn't want me to come back to Hog­warts.'

Sea­mus turned away from his poster and pulled his own py­ja­mas out of his trunk, still not look­ing at Har­ry.

'But - why?' said Har­ry, as­ton­ished. He knew that Sea­mus's moth­er was a witch and could not un­der­stand, there­fore, why she should have come over so Durs­ley­ish.

Sea­mus did not an­swer un­til he had fin­ished but­ton­ing his py­ja­mas.

'Well,' he said in a mea­sured voice, 'I sup­pose… be­cause of you.'

'What d'you mean?' said Har­ry quick­ly.

His heart was beat­ing rather fast. He felt vague­ly as though some­thing was clos­ing in on him.

'Well,' said Sea­mus again, still avoid­ing Har­rys eye, 'she… er… well, it's not just you, it's Dum­ble­dore, too…'

'She be­lieves the Dai­ly Prophet?' said Har­ry. 'She thinks I'm a liar and Dum­ble­dore's an old fool?'

Sea­mus looked up at him.

'Yeah, some­thing like that.'

Har­ry said noth­ing. He threw his wand down on to his bed­side ta­ble, pulled off his robes, stuffed them an­gri­ly in­to his trunk and pulled on his py­ja­mas. He was sick of it; sick of be­ing the per­son who is stared at and talked about all the time. If any of them knew, if any of them had the faintest idea what it felt like to be the one all these things had hap­pened to… Mrs. Finni­gan had no idea, the stupid wom­an, he thought sav­age­ly.

He got in­to bed and made to pull the hang­ings closed around him, but be­fore he could do so, Sea­mus said, 'Look… what did hap­pen that night when… you know, when… with Cedric Dig­gory and all?'

Sea­mus sound­ed ner­vous and ea­ger at the same time. Dean, who had been bend­ing over his trunk try­ing to re­trieve a slip­per, went odd­ly still and Har­ry knew he was lis­ten­ing hard.

'What are you ask­ing me for?' Har­ry re­tort­ed. 'Just read the Dai­ly Prophet like your moth­er, why don't you? That'll tell you all you need to know.'

'Don't you have a go at my moth­er,' Sea­mus snapped.

Til have a go at any­one who calls me a liar,' said Har­ry.

'Don't talk to me like that!'

Til talk to you how I want,' said Har­ry, his tem­per ris­ing so fast he snatched his wand back from his bed­side ta­ble. 'If you've got a prob­lem shar­ing a dor­mi­to­ry with me, go and ask McG­ona­gall if you can be moved… stop your mum­my wor­ry­ing -'

'Leave my moth­er out of this, Pot­ter!'

'What's go­ing on?'

Ron had ap­peared in the door­way. His wide eyes trav­elled from Har­ry, who was kneel­ing on his bed with his wand point­ing at Sea­mus, to Sea­mus, who was stand­ing there with his fists raised.

'He's hav­ing a go at my moth­er!' Sea­mus yelled.

'What?' said Ron. 'Har­ry wouldn't do that — we met your moth­er, we liked her…"

That's be­fore she start­ed be­liev­ing ev­ery word the stink­ing Dai­ly Prophet writes about me!' said Har­ry at the top of his voice.

'Oh,' said Ron, com­pre­hen­sion dawn­ing across his freck­led face. 'Oh… right.'

'You know what?' said Sea­mus heat­ed­ly, cast­ing Har­ry a ven­omous look. 'He's right, I don't want to share a dor­mi­to­ry with him any more, he's mad.'

'That's out of or­der, Sea­mus,' said Ron, whose ears were start­ing to glow red - al­ways a dan­ger sign.

'Out of or­der, am I?' shout­ed Sea­mus, who in con­trast with Ron was go­ing pale. 'You be­lieve all the rub­bish he's come out with about You-​Know-​Who, do you, you reck­on he's telling the truth?'

'Yeah, I do!' said Ron an­gri­ly.

Then you're mad, too,' said Sea­mus in dis­gust.

'Yeah? Well, un­for­tu­nate­ly for you, pal, I'm al­so a pre­fect!' said Ron, jab­bing him­self in the chest with a fin­ger. 'So un­less you want de­ten­tion, watch your mouth!'

Sea­mus looked for a few sec­onds as though de­ten­tion would be a rea­son­able price to pay to say what was go­ing through his mind; but with a noise of con­tempt he turned on his heel, vault­ed in­to bed and pulled the hang­ings shut with such vi­olence that they were ripped from the bed and fell in a dusty pile to the floor. Ron glared at Sea­mus, then looked at Dean and Neville.

'Any­one else's par­ents got a prob­lem with Har­ry?' he said ag­gres­sive­ly.

'My par­ents are Mug­gles, mate,' said Dean, shrug­ging. They don't know noth­ing about no deaths at Hog­warts, be­cause I'm not stupid enough to tell them.'

'You don't know my moth­er, she'd weasel any­thing out of any­one!' Sea­mus snapped at him. 'Any­way your par­ents don't get the Dai­ly Prophet. They don't know our Head­mas­ter's been sacked from the Wiz­eng­amot and the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards be­cause he's los­ing his mar­bles -'

'My gran says that's rub­bish,' piped up Neville. 'She says it's the Dai­ly Prophet that's go­ing down­hill, not Dum­ble­dore. She's can­celled our sub­scrip­tion. We be­lieve Har­ry' said Neville sim­ply. He climbed in­to bed and pulled the cov­ers up to his chin, look­ing owlish­ly over them at Sea­mus. 'My gran's al­ways said You-​Know-​Who would come back one day. She says if Dum­ble­dore says he's back, he's back.'

Har­ry felt a rush of grat­itude to­wards Neville. No­body else said any­thing. Sea­mus got out his wand, re­paired the bed hang­ings and van­ished be­hind them. Dean got in­to bed, rolled over and fell silent. Neville, who ap­peared to have noth­ing more to say ei­ther, was gaz­ing fond­ly at his moon­lit cac­tus.

Har­ry lay back on his pil­lows while Ron bus­tled around the next bed, putting his things away. He felt shak­en by the ar­gu­ment with Sea­mus, whom he had al­ways liked very much. How many more peo­ple were go­ing to sug­gest that he was ly­ing, or un­hinged?

Had Dum­ble­dore suf­fered like this all sum­mer, as first the Wiz­eng­amot, then the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards had thrown him from their ranks? Was it anger at Har­ry, per­haps, that had stopped Dum­ble­dore get­ting in touch with him for months? The two of them were in this to­geth­er, af­ter all; Dum­ble­dore had be­lieved Har­ry, an­nounced his ver­sion of events to the whole school and then to the wider wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty. Any­one who thought Har­ry was a liar had to think that Dum­ble­dore was, too, or else that Dum­ble­dore had been hood­winked…

They'll know we're right in the end, thought Har­ry mis­er­ably, as Ron got in­to bed and ex­tin­guished the last can­dle in the dor­mi­to­ry. But he won­dered how many more at­tacks like Sea­mus's he would have to en­dure be­fore that time came.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 12 - Professor Umbridge


Sea­mus dressed at top speed next morn­ing and left the dor­mi­to­ry be­fore Har­ry had even put on his socks.

'Does he think he'll turn in­to a nut­ter if he stays in a room with me too long?' asked Har­ry loud­ly, as the hem of Sea­mus's robes whipped out of sight.

'Don't wor­ry about it, Har­ry,' Dean mut­tered, hoist­ing his school­bag on to his shoul­der, 'he's just…'

But ap­par­ent­ly he was un­able to say ex­act­ly what Sea­mus was, and af­ter a slight­ly awk­ward pause fol­lowed him out of the room.

Neville and Ron both gave Har­ry an it's-​his-​prob­lem-​not-​yours look, but Har­ry was not much con­soled. How much more of this would he have to take?

'What's the mat­ter?' asked Hermione five min­utes lat­er, catch­ing up with Har­ry and Ron halfway across the com­mon room as they all head­ed to­wards break­fast. 'You look ab­so­lute­ly - Oh for heav­en's sake.'

She was star­ing at the com­mon-​room no­tice­board, where a large new sign had been put up.

GAL­LONS OF GALLEONS.' Pock­et mon­ey fail­ing to keep pace with your out­go­ings?

Like to earn a lit­tle ex­tra gold? Con­tact Fred and George Weasley, Gryffind­or com­mon room,

for sim­ple, part-​time, vir­tu­al­ly pain­less jobs. (We re­gret that all work is un­der­tak­en at ap­pli­cant's own risk.)

They are the lim­it,' said Hermione grim­ly, tak­ing down the sign, which Fred and George had pinned up over a poster giv­ing the

I

date of the first Hogsmeade week­end, which was to be in Oc­to­ber. 'We'll have to talk to them, Ron.'

Ron looked pos­itive­ly alarmed.

'Why?'

'Be­cause we're pre­fects!' said Hermione, as they climbed out through the por­trait hole. 'It's up to us to stop this kind of thing!'

Ron said noth­ing; Har­ry could tell from his glum ex­pres­sion that the prospect of stop­ping Fred and George do­ing ex­act­ly what they liked was not one he found invit­ing.

'Any­way, what's up, Har­ry?' Hermione con­tin­ued, as they walked down a flight of stairs lined with por­traits of old witch­es and wiz­ards, all of whom ig­nored them, be­ing en­grossed in their own con­ver­sa­tion. 'You look re­al­ly an­gry about some­thing.'

'Sea­mus reck­ons Har­ry's ly­ing about You-​Know-​Who,' said Ron suc­cinct­ly, when Har­ry did not re­spond.

Hermione, who Har­ry had ex­pect­ed to re­act an­gri­ly on his be­half, sighed.

'Yes, Laven­der thinks so too,' she said gloomi­ly.

'Been hav­ing a nice lit­tle chat with her about whether or not I'm a ly­ing, at­ten­tion-​seek­ing prat, have you?' Har­ry said loud­ly.

'No,' said Hermione calm­ly. 'I told her to keep her big fat mouth shut about you, ac­tu­al­ly. And it would be quite nice if you stopped jump­ing down our throats, Har­ry, be­cause in case you haven't no­ticed, Ron and I are on your side.'

There was a short pause.

'Sor­ry,' said Har­ry in a low voice.

That's quite all right,' said Hermione with dig­ni­ty. Then she shook her head. 'Don't you re­mem­ber what Dum­ble­dore said at the last end-​of-​term feast?'

Har­ry and Ron both looked at her blankly and Hermione sighed again.

'About You-​Know-​Who. He said his “gift for spread­ing dis­cord and en­mi­ty is very great. We can fight it on­ly by show­ing an equal­ly strong bond of friend­ship and trust —”'

'How do you re­mem­ber stuff like that?' asked Ron, look­ing at her in ad­mi­ra­tion.

'I lis­ten, Ron,' said Hermione, with a touch of as­per­ity.

'So do I, but I still couldn't tell you ex­act­ly what -'

The point,' Hermione pressed on loud­ly, 'is that this sort of thing is ex­act­ly what Dum­ble­dore was talk­ing about. You-​Know-​Who's on­ly been back two months and we've al­ready start­ed fight­ing among our­selves. And the Sort­ing Hats warn­ing was the same: stand to­geth­er, be unit­ed —'

'And Har­ry got it right last night,' re­tort­ed Ron. 'If that means we're sup­posed to get matey with the Slytherins -fat chance.'

'Well, I think it's a pity we're not try­ing for a bit of in­ter-​house uni­ty,' said Hermione cross­ly.

They had reached the foot of the mar­ble stair­case. A line of fourth-​year Raven­claws was cross­ing the En­trance Hall; they caught sight of Har­ry and hur­ried to form a tighter group, as though fright­ened he might at­tack strag­glers.

'Yeah, we re­al­ly ought to be try­ing to make friends with peo­ple like that,' said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly.

They fol­lowed the Raven­claws in­to the Great Hall, all look­ing in­stinc­tive­ly at the staff ta­ble as they en­tered. Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank was chat­ting to Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra, the As­tron­omy teach­er, and Ha­grid was once again con­spic­uous on­ly by his ab­sence. The en­chant­ed ceil­ing above them echoed Har­ry's mood; it was a mis­er­able rain-​cloud grey.

'Dum­ble­dore didn't even men­tion how long that Grub­bly-​Plank wom­an's stay­ing,' he said, as they made their way across to the Gryffind­or ta­ble. *• .

'Maybe…' said Hermione thought­ful­ly. '•'••'

'What?' said both Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

'Well… maybe he didn't want to draw at­ten­tion to Ha­grid not be­ing here.'

'What d'you mean, draw at­ten­tion to it?' said Ron, half-​laugh­ing. 'How could we not no­tice?'

Be­fore Hermione could an­swer, a tall black girl with long braid­ed hair had marched up to Har­ry.

'Hi, An­geli­na.'

'Hi,' she said briskly, 'good sum­mer?' And with­out wait­ing for an an­swer, 'Lis­ten, I've been made Gryffind­or Quid­ditch Cap­tain.'

'Nice one,' said Har­ry, grin­ning at her; he sus­pect­ed An­geli­na's pep talks might not be as long-​wind­ed as Oliv­er Wood's had been, which could on­ly be an im­prove­ment.

'Yeah, well, we need a new Keep­er now Oliv­er's left. Try­outs are on Fri­day at five o'clock and I want the whole team there, all right? Then we can see how the new per­son'll fit in.'

'OK,' said Har­ry.

An­geli­na smiled at him and de­part­ed.

'I'd for­got­ten Wood had left,' said Hermione vague­ly as she sat down be­side Ron and pulled a plate of toast to­wards her. 'I sup­pose that will make quite a dif­fer­ence to the team?'

'I's'pose,' said Har­ry, tak­ing the bench op­po­site. 'He was a good Keep­er…'

'Still, it won't hurt to have some new blood, will it?' said Ron.

With a whoosh and a clat­ter, hun­dreds of owls came soar­ing in through the up­per win­dows. They de­scend­ed all over the Hall, bring­ing let­ters and pack­ages to their own­ers and show­er­ing the break­fasters with droplets of wa­ter; it was clear­ly rain­ing hard out­side. Hed­wig was nowhere to be seen, but Har­ry was hard­ly sur­prised; his on­ly cor­re­spon­dent was Sir­ius, and he doubt­ed Sir­ius would have any­thing new to tell him af­ter on­ly twen­ty-​four hours apart. Hermione, how­ev­er, had to move her or­ange juice aside quick­ly to make way for a large damp barn owl bear­ing a sod­den Dai­ly Prophet in its beak.

'What are you still get­ting that for?' said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly, think­ing of Sea­mus as Hermione placed a Knut in the leather pouch on the owl's leg and it took off again. 'I'm not both­er­ing… load of rub­bish.'

'It's best to know what the en­emy is say­ing,' said Hermione dark­ly, and she un­furled the news­pa­per and dis­ap­peared be­hind it, not emerg­ing un­til Har­ry and Ron had fin­ished eat­ing.

'Noth­ing,' she said sim­ply, rolling up the news­pa­per and lay­ing it down by her plate. 'Noth­ing about you or Dum­ble­dore or any­thing.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was now mov­ing along the ta­ble hand­ing out timeta­bles.

'Look at to­day!' groaned Ron. 'His­to­ry of Mag­ic, dou­ble Po­tions,

Div­ina­tion and dou­ble De­fence Against the Dark Arts… Binns, Snape, Trelawney and that Um­bridge wom­an all in one day! I wish Fred and George'd hur­ry up and get those Skiv­ing Snack­box­es sort­ed…'

'Do mine ears de­ceive me?' said Fred, ar­riv­ing with George and squeez­ing on to the bench be­side Har­ry. 'Hog­warts pre­fects sure­ly don't wish to skive off lessons?'

'Look what we've got to­day,' said Ron grumpi­ly, shov­ing his timetable un­der Fred's nose. That's the worst Mon­day I've ev­er seen.'

'Fair point, lit­tle bro,' said Fred, scan­ning the col­umn. 'You can have a bit of Nose­bleed Nougat cheap if you like.'

'Why's it cheap?' said Ron sus­pi­cious­ly.

'Be­cause you'll keep bleed­ing till you shriv­el up, we haven't got an an­ti­dote yet,' said George, help­ing him­self to a kip­per.

'Cheers,' said Ron mood­ily, pock­et­ing his timetable, 'but I think I'll take the lessons.'

'And speak­ing of your Skiv­ing Snack­box­es,' said Hermione, eye­ing Fred and George bead­ily, 'you can't ad­ver­tise for testers on the Gryffind­or no­tice­board.'

'Says who?' said George, look­ing as­ton­ished.

'Says me,' said Hermione. 'And Ron.'

'Leave me out of it,' said Ron hasti­ly.

Hermione glared at him. Fred and George snig­gered.

'You'll be singing a dif­fer­ent tune soon enough, Hermione,' said Fred, thick­ly but­ter­ing a crum­pet. 'You're start­ing your fifth year, you'll be beg­ging us for a Snack­box be­fore long.'

'And why would start­ing fifth year mean I want a Skiv­ing Snack­box?' asked Hermione.

'Fifth year's OWL year,' said George.

'So?'

'So you've got your ex­ams com­ing up, haven't you? They'll be keep­ing your noses so hard to that grind­stone they'll be rubbed raw,' said Fred with sat­is­fac­tion.

'Half our year had mi­nor break­downs com­ing up to OWLs,' said George hap­pi­ly. Tears and tantrums… Pa­tri­cia Stimp­son kept com­ing over faint…"

'Ken­neth Towler came out in boils, d'you re­mem­ber?' said Fred rem­inis­cent­ly.

That's 'cause you put Bul­ba­dox pow­der in his py­ja­mas,' said George.

'Oh yeah,' said Fred, grin­ning. 'I'd for­got­ten… hard to keep track some­times, isn't it?'

'Any­way, it's a night­mare of a year, the fifth,' said George. 'If you care about ex­am re­sults, any­way. Fred and I man­aged to keep our peck­ers up some­how.'

'Yeah… you got, what was it, three OWLs each?' said Ron.

'Yep,' said Fred un­con­cerned­ly. 'But we feel our fu­tures lie out­side the world of aca­dem­ic achieve­ment.'

'We se­ri­ous­ly de­bat­ed whether we were go­ing to both­er com­ing back for our sev­enth year,' said George bright­ly, 'now that we've got-'

He broke off at a warn­ing look from Har­ry, who knew George had been about to men­tion the Tri­wiz­ard win­nings he had giv­en them.

'- now that we've got our OWLs,' George said hasti­ly. 'I mean, do we re­al­ly need NEWTs? But we didn't think Mum could take us leav­ing school ear­ly, not on top of Per­cy turn­ing out to be the world's biggest prat.'

'We're not go­ing to waste our last year here, though,' said Fred, look­ing afiec­tion­ate­ly around at the Great Hall. 'We're go­ing to use it to do a bit of mar­ket re­search, find out ex­act­ly what the av­er­age Hog­warts stu­dent re­quires from a joke shop, care­ful­ly eval­uate the re­sults of our re­search, then pro­duce prod­ucts to fit the de­mand.'

'But where are you go­ing to get the gold to start a joke shop?' Hermione asked scep­ti­cal­ly. 'You're go­ing to need all the in­gre­di­ents and ma­te­ri­als - and premis­es too, I sup­pose…"

Har­ry did not look at the twins. His face felt hot; he de­lib­er­ate­ly dropped his fork and dived down to re­trieve it. He heard Fred say over­head, 'Ask us no ques­tions and we'll tell you no lies, Hermione. C'mon, George, if we get there ear­ly we might be able to sell a few Ex­tend­able Ears be­fore Her­bol­ogy.'

Har­ry emerged from un­der the ta­ble to see Fred and George walk­ing away, each car­ry­ing a stack of toast.

'What did that mean?' said Hermione, look­ing from Har­ry to Ron. '“Ask us no ques­tions…” Does that mean they've al­ready got some gold to start a joke shop?'

'You know, I've been won­der­ing about that,' said Ron, his brow fur­rowed. They bought me a new set of dress robes this sum­mer and I couldn't un­der­stand where they got the Galleons…"

Har­ry de­cid­ed it was time to steer the con­ver­sa­tion out of these dan­ger­ous wa­ters.

'D'you reck­on it's true this year's go­ing to be re­al­ly tough? Be­cause of the ex­ams?'

'Oh, yeah,' said Ron. 'Bound to be, isn't it? OWLs are re­al­ly im­por­tant, af­fect the jobs you can ap­ply for and ev­ery­thing. We get ca­reer ad­vice, too, lat­er this year, Bill told me. So you can choose what NEWTs you want to do next year.'

'D'you know what you want to do af­ter Hog­warts?' Har­ry asked the oth­er two, as they left the Great Hall short­ly af­ter­wards and set off to­wards their His­to­ry of Mag­ic class­room.

'Not re­al­ly,' said Ron slow­ly. 'Ex­cept… well…'

He looked slight­ly sheep­ish.

'What?' Har­ry urged him.

'Well, it'd be cool to be an Au­ror,' said Ron in an off-​hand voice.

'Yeah, it would,' said Har­ry fer­vent­ly.

'But they're, like, the elite,' said Ron. 'You've got to be re­al­ly good. What about you, Hermione?'

'I don't know,' she said. 'I think I'd like to do some­thing re­al­ly worth­while.'

'An Au­ror's worth­while!' said Har­ry.

'Yes, it is, but it's not the on­ly worth­while thing,' said Hermione thought­ful­ly, 'I mean, if I could take SPEW fur­ther…'

Har­ry and Ron care­ful­ly avoid­ed look­ing at each oth­er.

His­to­ry of Mag­ic was by com­mon con­sent the most bor­ing sub­ject ev­er de­vised by wiz­ard­kind. Pro­fes­sor Binns, their ghost teach­er, had a wheezy, dron­ing voice that was al­most guar­an­teed to cause se­vere drowsi­ness with­in ten min­utes, five in warm weath­er. He nev­er var­ied the form of their lessons, but lec­tured them with­out paus­ing while they took notes, or rather, gazed sleep­ily in­to space. Har­ry and Ron had so far man­aged to scrape pass­es in this sub­ject on­ly by copy­ing Hermione's notes be­fore ex­ams; she alone seemed able to re­sist the so­porif­ic pow­er of Binns's voice.

To­day, they suf­fered an hour and a half's dron­ing on the sub­ject of gi­ant wars. Har­ry heard just enough with­in the first ten min­utes to ap­pre­ci­ate dim­ly that in an­oth­er teach­er's hands this sub­ject might have been mild­ly in­ter­est­ing, but then his brain dis­en­gaged, and he spent the re­main­ing hour and twen­ty min­utes play­ing hang­man on a cor­ner of his parch­ment with Ron, while Hermione shot them filthy looks out of the cor­ner of her eye.

'How would it be,' she asked them cold­ly, as they left the class­room for break (Binns drift­ing away through the black­board), 'if I re­fused to lend you my notes this year?'

'We'd fail our OWL,' said Ron. 'If you want that on your con­science, Hermione…'

'Well, you'd de­serve it,' she snapped. 'You don't even try to lis­ten to him, do you?'

'We do try' said Ron. 'We just haven't got your brains or your mem­ory or your con­cen­tra­tion - you're just clev­er­er than we are - is it nice to rub it in?'

'Oh, don't give me that rub­bish,' said Hermione, but she looked slight­ly mol­li­fied as she led the way out in­to the damp court­yard.

A fine misty driz­zle was falling, so that the peo­ple stand­ing in hud­dles around the edges of the yard looked blurred at the edges. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione chose a se­clud­ed cor­ner un­der a heav­ily drip­ping bal­cony, turn­ing up the col­lars of their robes against the chilly Septem­ber air and talk­ing about what Snape was like­ly to set them in the first les­son of the year. They had got as far as agree­ing that it was like­ly to be some­thing ex­treme­ly dif­fi­cult, just to catch them off guard af­ter a two-​month hol­iday, when some­one walked around the cor­ner to­wards them.

'Hel­lo, Har­ry!'

It was Cho Chang and, what was more, she was on her own again. This was most un­usu­al: Cho was al­most al­ways sur­round­ed by a gang of gig­gling girls; Har­ry re­mem­bered the agony of try­ing to get her by her­self to ask her to the Yule Ball.

'Hi,' said Har­ry, feel­ing his face grow hot. At least you're not

cov­ered in Stinksap this time, he told him­self. Cho seemed to be think­ing along the same lines.

'You got that stuff off, then?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, try­ing to grin as though the mem­ory of their last meet­ing was fun­ny as op­posed to mor­ti­fy­ing. 'So, did you… er… have a good sum­mer?'

The mo­ment he had said this he wished he hadn't - Cedric had been Cho's boyfriend and the mem­ory of his death must have af­fect­ed her hol­iday al­most as bad­ly as it had af­fect­ed Har­rys. Some­thing seemed to taut­en in her face, but she said, 'Oh, it was all right, you know…'

'Is that a Tor­na­dos badge?' Ron de­mand­ed sud­den­ly, point­ing to the front of Cho's robes, where a sky-​blue badge em­bla­zoned with a dou­ble gold T' was pinned. 'You don't sup­port them, do you?'

'Yeah, I do,' said Cho.

'Have you al­ways sup­port­ed them, or just since they start­ed win­ning the league?' said Ron, in what Har­ry con­sid­ered an un­nec­es­sar­ily ac­cusato­ry tone of voice.

'I've sup­port­ed them since I was six,' said Cho cool­ly. 'Any­way… see you, Har­ry.'

She walked away. Hermione wait­ed un­til Cho was halfway across the court­yard be­fore round­ing on Ron.

'You are so tact­less!'

'What? I on­ly asked her if -'

'Couldn't you tell she want­ed to talk to Har­ry on her own?'

'So? She could've done, I wasn't stop­ping -'

'Why on earth were you at­tack­ing her about her Quid­ditch team?'

'At­tack­ing? I wasn't at­tack­ing her, I was on­ly -'

'Who cares if she sup­ports the Tor­na­dos?'

'Oh, come on, half the peo­ple you see wear­ing those badges on­ly bought them last sea­son -'

'But what does it mat­ter!'

'It means they're not re­al fans, they're just jump­ing on the band­wag­on -'

That's the bell,' said Har­ry dul­ly, be­cause Ron and Hermione were bick­er­ing too loud­ly to hear it. They did not stop ar­gu­ing all the way down to Snape's dun­geon, which gave Har­ry plen­ty of time to re­flect that be­tween Neville and Ron he would be lucky ev­er to have two min­utes of con­ver­sa­tion with Cho that he could look back on with­out want­ing to leave the coun­try.

And yet, he thought, as they joined the queue lin­ing up out­side Snape's class­room door, she had cho­sen to come and talk to him, hadn't she? She had been Cedric's girl­friend; she could eas­ily have hat­ed Har­ry for com­ing out of the Tri­wiz­ard maze alive when Cedric had died, yet she was talk­ing to him in a per­fect­ly friend­ly way, not as though she thought him mad, or a liar, or in some hor­ri­ble way re­spon­si­ble for Cedric's death… yes, she had def­inite­ly cho­sen to come and talk to him, and that made the sec­ond time in two days… and at this thought, Har­ry's spir­its rose. Even the omi­nous sound of Snape's dun­geon door creak­ing open did not punc­ture the small, hope­ful bub­ble that seemed to have swelled in his chest. He filed in­to the class­room be­hind Ron and Hermione and fol­lowed them to their usu­al ta­ble at the back, where he sat down be­tween Ron and Hermione and ig­nored the huffy, ir­ri­ta­ble nois­es now is­su­ing from both of them.

'Set­tle down,' said Snape cold­ly, shut­ting the door be­hind him.

There was no re­al need for the call to or­der; the mo­ment the class had heard the door close, qui­et had fall­en and all fid­get­ing stopped. Snape's mere pres­ence was usu­al­ly enough to en­sure a class's si­lence.

'Be­fore we be­gin to­day's les­son,' said Snape, sweep­ing over to his desk and star­ing around at them all, 'I think it ap­pro­pri­ate to re­mind you that next June you will be sit­ting an im­por­tant ex­am­ina­tion, dur­ing which you will prove how much you have learned about the com­po­si­tion and use of mag­ical po­tions. Mo­ron­ic though some of this class un­doubt­ed­ly are, I ex­pect you to scrape an “Ac­cept­able” in your OWL, or suf­fer my… dis­plea­sure.'

His gaze lin­gered this time on Neville, who gulped.

'Af­ter this year, of course, many of you will cease study­ing with me,' Snape went on. '1 take on­ly the very best in­to my NEWT Po­tions class, which means that some of us will cer­tain­ly be say­ing good­bye.'

His eyes rest­ed on Har­ry and his lip curled. Har­ry glared back, feel­ing a grim plea­sure at the idea that he would be able to give up Po­tions af­ter fifth year.

'But we have an­oth­er year to go be­fore that hap­py mo­ment of farewell,' said Snape soft­ly, 'so, whether or not you are in­tend­ing to at­tempt NEWT, I ad­vise all of you to con­cen­trate your ef­forts up­on main­tain­ing the high pass lev­el I have come to ex­pect from my OWL stu­dents.

To­day we will be mix­ing a po­tion that of­ten comes up at Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­el: the Draught of Peace, a po­tion to calm anx­iety and soothe ag­ita­tion. Be warned: if you are too heavy-​hand­ed with the in­gre­di­ents you will put the drinker in­to a heavy and some­times ir­re­versible sleep, so you will need to pay close at­ten­tion to what you are do­ing.' On Har­ry's left, Hermione sat up a lit­tle straighter, her ex­pres­sion one of ut­most at­ten­tion. The in­gre­di­ents and method -' Snape flicked his wand '- are on the black­board -' (they ap­peared there) '- you will find ev­ery­thing you need —' he flicked his wand again '- in the store cup­board —' (the door of the said cup­board sprang open) '- you have an hour and a half… start.'

Just as Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had pre­dict­ed, Snape could hard­ly have set them a more dif­fi­cult, fid­dly po­tion. The in­gre­di­ents had to be added to the caul­dron in pre­cise­ly the right or­der and quan­ti­ties; the mix­ture had to be stirred ex­act­ly the right num­ber of times, first­ly in clock­wise, then in an­ti-​clock­wise di­rec­tions; the heat of the flames on which it was sim­mer­ing had to be low­ered to ex­act­ly the right lev­el for a spe­cif­ic num­ber of min­utes be­fore the fi­nal in­gre­di­ent was added.

'A light sil­ver vapour should now be ris­ing from your po­tion,' called Snape, with ten min­utes left to go.

Har­ry, who was sweat­ing pro­fuse­ly, looked des­per­ate­ly around the dun­geon. His own caul­dron was is­su­ing co­pi­ous amounts of dark grey steam; Ron's was spit­ting green sparks. Sea­mus was fever­ish­ly prod­ding the flames at the base of his caul­dron with the tip of his wand, as they seemed to be go­ing out. The sur­face of Hermione's po­tion, how­ev­er, was a shim­mer­ing mist of sil­ver vapour, and as Snape swept by he looked down his hooked nose at it with­out com­ment, which meant he could find noth­ing to crit­icise.

At Har­ry's caul­dron, how­ev­er, Snape stopped, and looked down at it with a hor­ri­ble smirk on his face.

'Pot­ter, what is this sup­posed to be?'

The Slytherins at the front of the class all looked up ea­ger­ly; they loved hear­ing Snape taunt Har­ry.

The Draught of Peace,' said Har­ry tense­ly.

Tell me, Pot­ter,' said Snape soft­ly, 'can you read?'

Dra­co Mal­foy laughed.

'Yes, I can,' said Har­ry, his fin­gers clenched tight­ly around his wand.

'Read the third line of the in­struc­tions for me, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry squint­ed at the black­board; it was not easy to make out the in­struc­tions through the haze of mul­ti-​coloured steam now fill­ing the dun­geon.

'“Add pow­dered moon­stone, stir three times counter-​clock­wise, al­low to sim­mer for sev­en min­utes then add two drops of syrup of helle­bore.”'

His heart sank. He had not added syrup of helle­bore, but had pro­ceed­ed straight to the fourth line of the in­struc­tions af­ter al­low­ing his po­tion to sim­mer for sev­en min­utes.

'Did you do ev­ery­thing on the third line, Pot­ter?'

'No,' said Har­ry very qui­et­ly.

'I beg your par­don?'

'No,' said Har­ry, more loud­ly. 'I for­got the helle­bore.'

'I know you did, Pot­ter, which means that this mess is ut­ter­ly worth­less. Evanesce.'

The con­tents of Har­ry's po­tion van­ished; he was left stand­ing fool­ish­ly be­side an emp­ty caul­dron.

Those of you who have man­aged to read the in­struc­tions, fill one flagon with a sam­ple of your po­tion, la­bel it clear­ly with your name and bring it up to my desk for test­ing,' said Snape. 'Home­work: twelve inch­es of parch­ment on the prop­er­ties of moon­stone and its us­es in po­tion-​mak­ing, to be hand­ed in on Thurs­day.'

While ev­ery­one around him filled their flagons, Har­ry cleared away his things, seething. His po­tion had been no worse than Ron's, which was now giv­ing off a foul odour of bad eggs; or Neville's, which had achieved the con­sis­ten­cy of just-​mixed ce­ment and which

Neville was now hav­ing to gouge out of his caul­dron; yet it was he, Har­ry, who would be re­ceiv­ing ze­ro marks for the day's work. He stuffed his wand back in­to his bag and slumped down on to his seat, watch­ing ev­ery­one else march up to Snape's desk with filled and corked flagons. When at long last the bell rang, Har­ry was first out of the dun­geon and had al­ready start­ed his lunch by the time Ron and Hermione joined him in the Great Hall. The ceil­ing had turned an even murki­er grey dur­ing the morn­ing. Rain was lash­ing the high win­dows.

That was re­al­ly un­fair,' said Hermione con­sol­ing­ly, sit­ting down next to Har­ry and help­ing her­self to shep­herd's pie. 'Your po­tion wasn't near­ly as bad as Goyle's; when he put it in his flagon the whole thing shat­tered and set his robes on fire.'

'Yeah, well,' said Har­ry, glow­er­ing at his plate, 'since when has Snape ev­er been fair to me?'

Nei­ther of the oth­ers an­swered; all three of them knew that Snape and Har­ry's mu­tu­al en­mi­ty had been ab­so­lute from the mo­ment Har­ry had set foot in Hog­warts.

'I did think he might be a bit bet­ter this year,' said Hermione in a dis­ap­point­ed voice. 'I mean… you know…' she looked around care­ful­ly; there were half a dozen emp­ty seats on ei­ther side of them and no­body was pass­ing the ta­ble '… now he's in the Or­der and ev­ery­thing.'

'Poi­sonous toad­stools don't change their spots,' said Ron sage­ly. 'Any­way I've al­ways thought Dum­ble­dore was cracked to trust Snape. Where's the ev­idence he ev­er re­al­ly stopped work­ing for You-​Know-​Who?'

'I think Dum­ble­dore's prob­ably got plen­ty of ev­idence, even if he doesn't share it with you, Ron,' snapped Hermione.

'Oh, shut up, the pair of you,' said Har­ry heav­ily, as Ron opened his mouth to ar­gue back. Hermione and Ron both froze, look­ing an­gry and of­fend­ed. 'Can't you give it a rest?' said Har­ry. 'You're al­ways hav­ing a go at each oth­er, it's driv­ing me mad.' And aban­don­ing his shep­herd's pie, he swung his school­bag back over his shoul­der and left them sit­ting there.

He walked up the mar­ble stair­case two steps at a time, past the many stu­dents hur­ry­ing to­wards lunch. The anger that had just flared so un­ex­pect­ed­ly still blazed in­side him, and the vi­sion of Ron and Hermione's shocked faces af­ford­ed him a sense of deep sat­is­fac­tion. Serve them right, he thought, why can't they give it a rest … bick­er­ing all the time… it's enough to drive any­one up the wall…

He passed the large pic­ture of Sir Cado­gan the knight on a land­ing; Sir Cado­gan drew his sword and bran­dished it fierce­ly at Har­ry, who ig­nored him.

'Come back, you scurvy dog! Stand fast and fight!' yelled Sir Cado­gan in a muf­fled voice from be­hind his vi­sor, but Har­ry mere­ly walked on and when Sir Cado­gan at­tempt­ed to fol­low him by run­ning in­to a neigh­bour­ing pic­ture, he was re­buffed by its in­hab­itant, a large and an­gry-​look­ing wolfhound.

Har­ry spent the rest of the lunch hour sit­ting alone un­der­neath the trap­door at the top of North Tow­er. Con­se­quent­ly, he was the first to as­cend the sil­ver lad­der that led to Sybill Trelawney's class­room when the bell rang.

Af­ter Po­tions, Div­ina­tion was Har­rys least favourite class, which was due main­ly to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's habit of pre­dict­ing his pre­ma­ture death ev­ery few lessons. A thin wom­an, heav­ily draped in shawls and glit­ter­ing with strings of beads, she al­ways re­mind­ed Har­ry of some kind of in­sect, with her glass­es huge­ly mag­ni­fy­ing her eyes. She was busy putting copies of bat­tered leather-​bound books on each of the spindly lit­tle ta­bles with which her room was lit­tered when Har­ry en­tered the room, but the light cast by the lamps cov­ered by scarves and the low-​burn­ing, sick­ly-​scent­ed fire was so dim she ap­peared not to no­tice him as he took a seat in the shad­ows. The rest of the class ar­rived over the next five min­utes. Ron emerged from the trap­door, looked around care­ful­ly, spot­ted Har­ry and made di­rect­ly for him, or as di­rect­ly as he could while hav­ing to wend his way be­tween ta­bles, chairs and over­stuffed pouffes.

'Hermione and me have stopped ar­gu­ing,' he said, sit­ting down be­side Har­ry.

'Good,' grunt­ed Har­ry.

'But Hermione says she thinks it would be nice if you stopped tak­ing out your tem­per on us,' said Ron.

'I'm not -'

'I'm just pass­ing on the mes­sage,' said Ron, talk­ing over him. 'But I reck­on she's right. It's not our fault how Sea­mus and Snape treat you.'

'I nev­er said it -'

'Good-​day,' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney in her usu­al misty, dreamy voice, and Har­ry broke off, again feel­ing both an­noyed and slight­ly ashamed of him­self. 'And wel­come back to Div­ina­tion. I have, of course, been fol­low­ing your for­tunes most care­ful­ly over the hol­idays, and am de­light­ed to see that you have all re­turned to Hog­warts safe­ly - as, of course, I knew you would.

'You will find on the ta­bles be­fore you copies of The Dream Or­acle, by Ini­go Ima­go. Dream in­ter­pre­ta­tion is a most im­por­tant means of di­vin­ing the fu­ture and one that may very prob­ably be test­ed in your OWL. Not, of course, that I be­lieve ex­am­ina­tion pass­es or fail­ures are of the re­motest im­por­tance when it comes to the sa­cred art of div­ina­tion. If you have the See­ing Eye, cer­tifi­cates and grades mat­ter very lit­tle. How­ev­er, the Head­mas­ter likes you to sit the ex­am­ina­tion, so…'

Her voice trailed away del­icate­ly, leav­ing them all in no doubt that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney con­sid­ered her sub­ject above such sor­did mat­ters as ex­am­ina­tions.

Turn, please, to the in­tro­duc­tion and read what Ima­go has to say on the mat­ter of dream in­ter­pre­ta­tion. Then, di­vide in­to pairs. Use The Dream Or­acle to in­ter­pret each oth­ers most re­cent dreams. Car­ry on.'

The one good thing to be said for this les­son was that it was not a dou­ble pe­ri­od. By the time they had all fin­ished read­ing the in­tro­duc­tion of the book, they had bare­ly ten min­utes left for dream in­ter­pre­ta­tion. At the ta­ble next to Har­ry and Ron, Dean had paired up with Neville, who im­me­di­ate­ly em­barked on a long-​wind­ed ex­pla­na­tion of a night­mare in­volv­ing a pair of gi­ant scis­sors wear­ing his grand­moth­er's best hat; Har­ry and Ron mere­ly looked at each oth­er glum­ly.

'I nev­er re­mem­ber my dreams,' said Ron, 'you say one.'

'You must re­mem­ber one of them,' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly.

He was not go­ing to share his dreams with any­one. He knew per­fect­ly well what his reg­ular night­mare about a grave­yard meant, he did not need Ron or Pro­fes­sor Trelawney or the stupid Dream Or­acle to tell him.

'Well, I dreamed I was play­ing Quid­ditch the oth­er night,' said Ron, screw­ing up his face in an ef­fort to re­mem­ber. 'What d'you reck­on that means?'

'Prob­ably that you're go­ing to be eat­en by a gi­ant marsh­mal­low or some­thing,' said Har­ry, turn­ing the pages of The Dream Or­acle with­out in­ter­est. It was very dull work look­ing up bits of dreams in the Or­acle and Har­ry was not cheered up when Pro­fes­sor Trelawney set them the task of keep­ing a dream di­ary for a month as home­work. When the bell went, he and Ron led the way back down the lad­der, Ron grum­bling loud­ly.

'D'you re­alise how much home­work we've got al­ready? Binns set us a foot-​and-​a-​half-​long es­say on gi­ant wars, Snape wants a foot on the use of moon­stones, and now we've got a month's dream di­ary from Trelawney! Fred and George weren't wrong about OWL year, were they? That Um­bridge wom­an had bet­ter not give us any…"

When they en­tered the De­fence Against the Dark Arts class­room they found Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge al­ready seat­ed at the teach­er's desk, wear­ing the fluffy pink cardi­gan of the night be­fore and the black vel­vet bow on top of her head. Har­ry was again re­mind­ed forcibly of a large fly perched un­wise­ly on top of an even larg­er toad.

The class was qui­et as it en­tered the room; Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was, as yet, an un­known quan­ti­ty and no­body knew how strict a dis­ci­plinar­ian she was like­ly to be.

'Well, good af­ter­noon!' she said, when fi­nal­ly the whole class had sat down.

A few peo­ple mum­bled 'good af­ter­noon' in re­ply.

Tut, tut,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'That won't do, now, will it? I should like you, please, to re­ply “Good af­ter­noon, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge”. One more time, please. Good af­ter­noon, class!'

'Good af­ter­noon, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge,' they chant­ed back at her.

There, now,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sweet­ly. That wasn't too dif­fi­cult, was it? Wands away and quills out, please.'

Many of the class ex­changed gloomy looks; the or­der 'wands away' had nev­er yet been fol­lowed by a les­son they had found in­ter­est­ing. Har­ry shoved his wand back in­side his bag and pulled out quill, ink and parch­ment. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge opened her hand­bag, ex­tract­ed her own wand, which was an un­usu­al­ly short one, and tapped the black­board sharply with it; words ap­peared on the board at once:

De­fence Against the Dark Arts A Re­turn to Ba­sic Prin­ci­ples

'Well now, your teach­ing in this sub­ject has been rather dis­rupt­ed and frag­ment­ed, hasn't it?' stat­ed Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, turn­ing to face the class with her hands clasped neat­ly in front of her. The con­stant chang­ing of teach­ers, many of whom do not seem to have fol­lowed any Min­istry-​ap­proved cur­ricu­lum, has un­for­tu­nate­ly re­sult­ed in your be­ing far be­low the stan­dard we would ex­pect to see in your OWL year.

'You will be pleased to know, how­ev­er, that these prob­lems are now to be rec­ti­fied. We will be fol­low­ing a care­ful­ly struc­tured, the­ory-​cen­tred, Min­istry-​ap­proved course of de­fen­sive mag­ic this year. Copy down the fol­low­ing, please.'

She rapped the black­board again; the first mes­sage van­ished and was re­placed by the 'Course Aims'.

. Un­der­stand­ing the prin­ci­ples un­der­ly­ing de­fen­sive mag­ic.

. Learn­ing to recog­nise sit­ua­tions in which de­fen­sive mag­ic can legal­ly be used.

. Plac­ing the use of de­fen­sive mag­ic in a con­text for prac­ti­cal use.

For a cou­ple of min­utes the room was full of the sound of scratch­ing quills on parch­ment. When ev­ery­one had copied down Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's three course aims she asked, 'Has ev­ery­body got a copy of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory by Wilbert Slinkhard?'

There was a dull mur­mur of as­sent through­out the class.

'I think we'll try that again,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'When I ask you a ques­tion, I should like you to re­ply, “Yes, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge”, or “No, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge”. So: has ev­ery­one got a copy of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory by Wilbert Slinkhard?'

'Yes, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge,' rang through the room.

'Good,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'I should like you to turn to page five and read “Chap­ter One, Ba­sics for Be­gin­ners”. There will be no need to talk.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge left the black­board and set­tled her­self in the chair be­hind the teach­er's desk, ob­serv­ing them all close­ly with those pouchy toad's eyes. Har­ry turned to page five of his copy of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory and start­ed to read.

It was des­per­ate­ly dull, quite as bad as lis­ten­ing to Pro­fes­sor Binns. He felt his con­cen­tra­tion slid­ing away from him; he had soon read the same line half a dozen times with­out tak­ing in more than the first few words. Sev­er­al silent min­utes passed. Next to him, Ron was ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly turn­ing his quill over and over in his fin­gers, star­ing at the same spot on the page. Har­ry looked right and re­ceived a sur­prise to shake him out of his tor­por. Hermione had not even opened her copy of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory. She was star­ing fixed­ly at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge with her hand in the air.

Har­ry could not re­mem­ber Hermione ev­er ne­glect­ing to read when in­struct­ed to, or in­deed re­sist­ing the temp­ta­tion to open any book that came un­der her nose. He looked at her en­quir­ing­ly, but she mere­ly shook her head slight­ly to in­di­cate that she was not about to an­swer ques­tions, and con­tin­ued to stare at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, who was look­ing just as res­olute­ly in an­oth­er di­rec­tion.

Af­ter sev­er­al more min­utes had passed, how­ev­er, Har­ry was not the on­ly one watch­ing Hermione. The chap­ter they had been in­struct­ed to read was so te­dious that more and more peo­ple were choos­ing to watch Hermione's mute at­tempt to catch Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's eye rather than strug­gle on with 'Ba­sics for Be­gin­ners'.

When more than half the class were star­ing at Hermione rather than at their books, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge seemed to de­cide that she could ig­nore the sit­ua­tion no longer.

'Did you want to ask some­thing about the chap­ter, dear?' she asked Hermione, as though she had on­ly just no­ticed her.

'Not about the chap­ter, no,' said Hermione.

'Well, we're read­ing just now,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, show­ing her small point­ed teeth. 'If you have oth­er queries we can deal with them at the end of class.'

'I've got a query about your course aims,' said Hermione.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge raised her eye­brows.

'And your name is?'

'Hermione Granger,' said Hermione.

'Well, Miss Granger, I think the course aims are per­fect­ly clear if you read them through care­ful­ly' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in a voice of de­ter­mined sweet­ness.

'Well, I don't,' said Hermione blunt­ly. There's noth­ing writ­ten up there about us­ing de­fen­sive spells.'

There was a short si­lence in which many mem­bers of the class turned their heads to frown at the three course aims still writ­ten on the black­board.

'Us­ing de­fen­sive spells?' Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge re­peat­ed with a lit­tle laugh. 'Why, I can't imag­ine any sit­ua­tion aris­ing in my class­room that would re­quire you to use a de­fen­sive spell, Miss Granger. You sure­ly aren't ex­pect­ing to be at­tacked dur­ing class?'

'We're not go­ing to use mag­ic?' Ron ex­claimed loud­ly.

'Stu­dents raise their hands when they wish to speak in my class, Mr-?'

'Weasley,' said Ron, thrust­ing his hand in­to the air.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, smil­ing still more wide­ly, turned her back on him. Har­ry and Hermione im­me­di­ate­ly raised their hands too. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's pouchy eyes lin­gered on Har­ry for a mo­ment be­fore she ad­dressed Hermione.

'Yes, Miss Granger? You want­ed to ask some­thing else?'

'Yes,' said Hermione. 'Sure­ly the whole point of De­fence Against the Dark Arts is to prac­tise de­fen­sive spells?'

'Are you a Min­istry-​trained ed­uca­tion­al ex­pert, Miss Granger?' asked Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, in her false­ly sweet voice.

'No, but -'

'Well then, I'm afraid you are not qual­ified to de­cide what the “whole point” of any class is. Wiz­ards much old­er and clev­er­er than you have de­vised our new pro­gramme of study. You will be learn­ing about de­fen­sive spells in a se­cure, risk-​free way -'

'What use is that?' said Har­ry loud­ly. 'If we're go­ing to be at­tacked, it won't be in a -'

'Hand, Mr Pot­ter!' sang Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

Har­ry thrust his fist in the air. Again, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge prompt­ly turned away from him, but now sev­er­al oth­er peo­ple had their hands up, too.

'And your name is?' Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge said to Dean.

'Dean Thomas.'

'Well, Mr Thomas?'

'Well, it's like Har­ry said, isn't it?' said Dean. 'If we're go­ing to be at­tacked, it won't be risk free.'

'I re­peat,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, smil­ing in a very ir­ri­tat­ing fash­ion at Dean, 'do you ex­pect to be at­tacked dur­ing my class­es?'

'No, but -'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge talked over him. 'I do not wish to crit­icise the way things have been run in this school,' she said, an un­con­vinc­ing smile stretch­ing her wide mouth, 'but you have been ex­posed to some very ir­re­spon­si­ble wiz­ards in this class, very ir­re­spon­si­ble in­deed - not to men­tion,' she gave a nasty lit­tle laugh, 'ex­treme­ly dan­ger­ous half-​breeds.'

'If you mean Pro­fes­sor Lupin,' piped up Dean an­gri­ly, 'he was the best we ev­er -'

'Hand, Mr Thomas! As I was say­ing - you have been in­tro­duced to spells that have been com­plex, in­ap­pro­pri­ate to your age group and po­ten­tial­ly lethal. You have been fright­ened in­to be­liev­ing that you are like­ly to meet Dark at­tacks ev­ery oth­er day -'

'No we haven't,' Hermione said, 'we just -'

'Your hand is not up, Miss Granger!'

Hermione put up her hand. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge turned away from her.

'It is my un­der­stand­ing that my pre­de­ces­sor not on­ly per­formed il­le­gal curs­es in front of you, he ac­tu­al­ly per­formed them on you.'

'Well, he turned out to be a ma­ni­ac, didn't he?' said Dean hot­ly. 'Mind you, we still learned loads.'

'Your hand is not up, Mr Thomas!' trilled Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'Now, it is the view of the Min­istry that a the­oret­ical knowl­edge will be more than suf­fi­cient to get you through your ex­am­ina­tion, which, af­ter all, is what school is all about. And your name is?' she added, star­ing at Par­vati, whose hand had just shot up.

'Par­vati Patil, and isn't there a prac­ti­cal bit in our De­fence Against the Dark Arts OWL? Aren't we sup­posed to show that we can ac­tu­al­ly do the counter-​curs­es and things?'

'As long as you have stud­ied the the­ory hard enough, there is no rea­son why you should not be able to per­form the spells un­der care­ful­ly con­trolled ex­am­ina­tion con­di­tions,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge dis­mis­sive­ly.

'With­out ev­er prac­tis­ing them be­fore­hand?' said Par­vati in­cred­ulous­ly. 'Are you telling us that the first time we'll get to do the spells will be dur­ing our ex­am?'

'I re­peat, as long as you have stud­ied the the­ory hard enough -'

'And what good's the­ory go­ing to be in the re­al world?' said Har­ry loud­ly, his fist in the air again.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge looked up.

'This is school, Mr Pot­ter, not the re­al world,' she said soft­ly.

'So we're not sup­posed to be pre­pared for what's wait­ing for us out there?'

There is noth­ing wait­ing out there, Mr Pot­ter.'

'Oh, yeah?' said Har­ry. His tem­per, which seemed to have been bub­bling just be­neath the sur­face all day, was reach­ing boil­ing point.

'Who do you imag­ine wants to at­tack chil­dren like your­selves?' en­quired Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in a hor­ri­bly hon­eyed voice.

'Hmm, let's think…' said Har­ry in a mock thought­ful voice. 'Maybe… Lord Volde­mor­tT

Ron gasped; Laven­der Brown ut­tered a lit­tle scream; Neville slipped side­ways off his stool. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, how­ev­er, did not flinch. She was star­ing at Har­ry with a grim­ly sat­is­fied ex­pres­sion on her face.

Ten points from Gryffind­or, Mr Pot­ter.'

The class­room was silent and still. Ev­ery­one was star­ing at ei­ther Um­bridge or Har­ry.

'Now, let me make a few things quite plain.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge stood up and leaned to­wards them, her stub­by-​fin­gered hands splayed on her desk.

'You have been told that a cer­tain Dark wiz­ard has re­turned from the dead -'

'He wasn't dead,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly, 'but yeah, he's re­turned!'

'Mr-​Pot­ter-​you-​have-​al­ready-​lost-​your-​house-​ten-​points-​do-​not-​make-​mat­ters-​worse-​for-​your­self,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in one breath with­out look­ing at him. 'As I was say­ing, you have been in­formed that a cer­tain Dark wiz­ard is at large once again. This is a lie.'

'It is NOT a lie!' said Har­ry. 'I saw him, I fought him!'

'De­ten­tion, Mr Pot­ter!' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge tri­umphant­ly. To­mor­row evening. Five o'clock. My of­fice. I re­peat, this is a lie. The Min­istry of Mag­ic guar­an­tees that you are not in dan­ger from any Dark wiz­ard. If you are still wor­ried, by all means come and see me out­side class hours. If some­one is alarm­ing you with fibs about re­born Dark wiz­ards, I would like to hear about it. I am here to help. I am your friend. And now, you will kind­ly con­tin­ue your read­ing. Page five, “Ba­sics for Be­gin­ners”.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sat down be­hind her desk. Har­ry, how­ev­er, stood up. Ev­ery­one was star­ing at him; Sea­mus looked half-​scared, half-​fas­ci­nat­ed.

'Har­ry, no!' Hermione whis­pered in a warn­ing voice, tug­ging at his sleeve, but Har­ry jerked his arm out of her reach.

'So, ac­cord­ing to you, Cedric Dig­gory dropped dead of his own ac­cord, did he?' Har­ry asked, his voice shak­ing.

There was a col­lec­tive in­take of breath from the class, for none of them, apart from Ron and Hermione, had ev­er heard Har­ry talk about what had hap­pened on the night Cedric had died. They stared avid­ly from Har­ry to Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, who had raised her eyes and was star­ing at him with­out a trace of a fake smile on her face.

'Cedric Dig­gory's death was a trag­ic ac­ci­dent,' she said cold­ly.

'It was mur­der,' said Har­ry. He could feel him­self shak­ing. He had hard­ly spo­ken to any­one about this, least of all thir­ty ea­ger­ly lis­ten­ing class­mates. 'Volde­mort killed him and you know it.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's face was quite blank. For a mo­ment, Har­ry thought she was go­ing to scream at him. Then she said, in her soft­est, most sweet­ly girl­ish voice, 'Come here, Mr Pot­ter, dear.'

He kicked his chair aside, strode around Ron and Hermione and up to the teach­er's desk. He could feel the rest of the class hold­ing its breath. He felt so an­gry he did not care what hap­pened next.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge pulled a small roll of pink parch­ment out of her hand­bag, stretched it out on the desk, dipped her quill in­to a bot­tle of ink and start­ed scrib­bling, hunched over so that Har­ry could not see what she was writ­ing. No­body spoke. Af­ter a minute or so she rolled up the parch­ment and tapped it with her wand; it sealed it­self seam­less­ly so that he could not open it.

Take this to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, dear,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, hold­ing out the note to him.

He took it from her with­out say­ing a word, turned on his heel and left the room, not even look­ing back at Ron and Hermione, slam­ming the class­room door shut be­hind him. He walked very fast along the cor­ri­dor, the note to McG­ona­gall clutched tight in his hand, and turn­ing a cor­ner walked slap in­to Peeves the poltergeist, a wide-​mouthed lit­tle man float­ing on his back in midair, jug­gling sev­er­al inkwells.

'Why it's Pot­ty Wee Pot­ter!' cack­led Peeves, al­low­ing two of the inkwells to fall to the ground where they smashed and spat­tered the walls with ink; Har­ry jumped back­wards out of the way with a snarl.

'Get out of it, Peeves.'

'Oooh, Crack­pot's feel­ing cranky' said Peeves, pur­su­ing Har­ry along the cor­ri­dor, leer­ing as he zoomed along above him. 'What is it this time, my fine Pot­ty friend? Hear­ing voic­es? See­ing vi­sions? Speak­ing in -' Peeves blew a gi­gan­tic rasp­ber­ry '— tongues?'

'I said, leave me ALONE!' Har­ry shout­ed, run­ning down the near­est flight of stairs, but Peeves mere­ly slid down the ban­is­ter on his back be­side him.

'Oh, most think he's bark­ing, the pot­ty wee lad, But some are more kind­ly and think he's just sad, But Peevesy knows bet­ter and says that he's mad —

'SHUT UP!'

A door to his left flew open and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall emerged from her of­fice look­ing grim and slight­ly ha­rassed.

'What on earth are you shout­ing about, Pot­ter?' she snapped, as Peeves cack­led glee­ful­ly and zoomed out of sight. 'Why aren't you in class?'

'I've been sent to see you,' said Har­ry stiffly.

'Sent? What do you mean, sent?'

He held out the note from Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall took it from him, frown­ing, slit it open with a tap of her wand, stretched it out and be­gan to read. Her eyes zoomed from side to side be­hind their square spec­ta­cles as she read what Um­bridge had writ­ten, and with each line they be­came nar­row­er.

'Come in here, Pot­ter.'

He fol­lowed her in­side her study. The door closed au­to­mat­ical­ly be­hind him.

'Well?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, round­ing on him. 'Is this true?'

'Is what true?' Har­ry asked, rather more ag­gres­sive­ly than he had in­tend­ed. 'Pro­fes­sor?' he added, in an at­tempt to sound more po­lite.

'Is it true that you shout­ed at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry.

'You called her a liar?'

'Yes.'

'You told her He Who Must Not Be Named is back?'

'Yes.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sat down be­hind her desk, watch­ing Har­ry close­ly. Then she said, 'Have a bis­cuit, Pot­ter.'

'Have - what?'

'Have a bis­cuit,' she re­peat­ed im­pa­tient­ly, in­di­cat­ing a tar­tan tin ly­ing on top of one of the piles of pa­pers on her desk. 'And sit down.'

There had been a pre­vi­ous oc­ca­sion when Har­ry, ex­pect­ing to be caned by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, had in­stead been ap­point­ed by her to the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team. He sank in­to a chair op­po­site her and helped him­self to a Gin­ger Newt, feel­ing just as con­fused and wrong-​foot­ed as he had done on that oc­ca­sion.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall set down Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's note and looked very se­ri­ous­ly at Har­ry.

'Pot­ter, you need to be care­ful.'

Har­ry swal­lowed his mouth­ful of Gin­ger Newt and stared at her. Her tone of voice was not at all what he was used to; it was not brisk, crisp and stern; it was low and anx­ious and some­how much more hu­man than usu­al.

'Mis­be­haviour in Do­lores Um­bridge's class could cost you much more than house points and a de­ten­tion.'

'What do you -?'

'Pot­ter, use your com­mon sense,' snapped Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with an abrupt re­turn to her usu­al man­ner. 'You know where she comes from, you must know to whom she is re­port­ing.'

The bell rang for the end of the les­son. Over­head and all around came the ele­phan­tine sounds of hun­dreds of stu­dents on the move.

'It says here she's giv­en you de­ten­tion ev­ery evening this week, start­ing to­mor­row,' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said, look­ing down at Um­bridge's note again.

'Ev­ery evening this week!' Har­ry re­peat­ed, hor­ri­fied. 'But, Pro­fes­sor, couldn't you -?'

'No, I couldn't,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall flat­ly.

'But -'

'She is your teach­er and has ev­ery right to give you de­ten­tion. You will go to her room at five o'clock to­mor­row for the first one. Just re­mem­ber: tread care­ful­ly around Do­lores Um­bridge.'

'But I was telling the truth!' said Har­ry, out­raged. 'Volde­mort is back, you know he is; Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore knows he is -'

'For heav­en's sake, Pot­ter!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, straight­en­ing her glass­es an­gri­ly (she had winced hor­ri­bly when he had used Volde­mort's name). 'Do you re­al­ly think this is about truth or lies? It's about keep­ing your head down and your tem­per un­der con­trol!'

She stood up, nos­trils wide and mouth very thin, and Har­ry stood up, too.

'Have an­oth­er bis­cuit,' she said ir­ri­ta­bly, thrust­ing the tin at him.

'No, thanks,' said Har­ry cold­ly.

'Don't be ridicu­lous,' she snapped. •,••

He took one.

'Thanks,' he said grudg­ing­ly.

'Didn't you lis­ten to Do­lores Um­bridge's speech at the start-​of-​term feast, Pot­ter?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'Yeah… she said… progress will be pro­hib­it­ed or… well, it meant that… that the Min­istry of Mag­ic is try­ing to in­ter­fere at Hog­warts.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall eyed him close­ly for a mo­ment, then sniffed, walked around her desk and held open the door for him.

'Well, I'm glad you lis­ten to Hermione Granger at any rate,' she said, point­ing him out of her of­fice.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 13 - Detention with Dolores


Din­ner in the Great Hall that night was not a pleas­ant ex­pe­ri­ence for Har­ry. The news about his shout­ing match with Um­bridge had trav­eled ex­cep­tion­al­ly fast even by Hog­warts' stan­dards. He heard whis­pers all around him as he sat eat­ing be­tween Ron and Hermione. The fun­ny thing was that none of the whis­per­ers seemed to mind him over­hear­ing what they were say­ing about him. On the con­trary, it was as though they were hop­ing he would get an­gry and start shout­ing again, so that they could hear his sto­ry first-​hand.

'He says he saw Cedric Dig­gory mur­dered…'

'He reck­ons he du­elled with You-​Know-​Who…'

'Come off it…"

'Who does he think he's kid­ding?'

Tur-​Zease…"

'What I don't get,' said Har­ry through clenched teeth, lay­ing down his knife and fork (his hands were shak­ing too much to hold them steady), 'is why they all be­lieved the sto­ry two months ago when Dum­ble­dore told them…'

'The thing is, Har­ry, I'm not sure they did,' said Hermione grim­ly. 'Oh, let's get out of here.'

She slammed down her own knife and fork; Ron looked long­ing­ly at his half-​fin­ished ap­ple pie but fol­lowed suit. Peo­ple stared at them all the way out of the Hall.

'What d'you mean, you're not sure they be­lieved Dum­ble­dore?' Har­ry asked Hermione when they reached the first-​floor land­ing.

'Look, you don't un­der­stand what it was like af­ter it hap­pened,' said Hermione qui­et­ly. 'You ar­rived back in the mid­dle of the lawn clutch­ing Cedric's dead body… none of us saw what hap­pened in the maze… we just had Dum­ble­dore's word for it that You-​Know-​Who had come back and killed Cedric and fought you.'

'Which is the truth!' said Har­ry loud­ly.

'I know it is, Har­ry, so will you please stop bit­ing my head off?' said Hermione weari­ly. 'It's just that be­fore the truth could sink in, ev­ery­one went home for the sum­mer, where they spent two months read­ing about how you're a nut­case and Dum­ble­dore's go­ing se­nile!'

Rain pound­ed on the win­dow­panes as they strode along the emp­ty cor­ri­dors back to Gryffind­or Tow­er. Har­ry felt as though his first day had last­ed a week, but he still had a moun­tain of home­work to do be­fore bed. A dull pound­ing pain was de­vel­op­ing over his right eye. He glanced out of a rain-​washed win­dow at the dark grounds as they turned in­to the Fat La­dy's cor­ri­dor. There was still no light in Ha­grid's cab­in.

'Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia,' said Hermione, be­fore the Fat La­dy could ask. The por­trait swung open to re­veal the hole be­hind it and the three of them scram­bled through it.

The com­mon room was al­most emp­ty; near­ly ev­ery­one was still down at din­ner. Crook­shanks un­coiled him­self from an arm­chair and trot­ted to meet them, purring loud­ly, and when Har­ry, Ron and Hermione took their three favourite chairs at the fire­side he leapt light­ly on to Hermione's lap and curled up there like a fur­ry gin­ger cush­ion. Har­ry gazed in­to the flames, feel­ing drained and ex­haust­ed.

'How can Dum­ble­dore have let this hap­pen?' Hermione cried sud­den­ly, mak­ing Har­ry and Ron jump; Crook­shanks leapt off her, look­ing af­front­ed. She pound­ed the arms of her chair in fury, so that bits of stuff­ing leaked out of the holes. 'How can he let that ter­ri­ble wom­an teach us? And in our OWL year, too!'

'Well, we've nev­er had great De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­ers, have we?' said Har­ry. 'You know what it's like, Ha­grid told us, no­body wants the job; they say it's jinxed.'

'Yes, but to em­ploy some­one who's ac­tu­al­ly re­fus­ing to let us do mag­ic! What's Dum­ble­dore play­ing at?'

'And she's try­ing to get peo­ple to spy for her,' said Ron dark­ly.

'Re­mem­ber when she said she want­ed us to come and tell her if we hear any­one say­ing You-​Know-​Who's back?'

'Of course she's here to spy on us all, that's ob­vi­ous, why else would Fudge have want­ed her to come?' snapped Hermione.

'Don't start ar­gu­ing again,' said Har­ry weari­ly, as Ron opened his mouth to re­tal­iate. 'Can't we just… let's just do that home­work, get it out of the way…'

They col­lect­ed their school­bags from a cor­ner and re­turned to the chairs by the fire. Peo­ple were com­ing back from din­ner now. Har­ry kept his face avert­ed from the por­trait hole, but could still sense the stares he was at­tract­ing.

'Shall we do Snape's stuff first?' said Ron, dip­ping his quill in­to his ink. “The prop­er­ties… of moon­stone… and its us­es … in po­tion-​mak­ing…'” he mut­tered, writ­ing the words across the top of his parch­ment as he spoke them. There.' He un­der­lined the ti­tle, then looked up ex­pec­tant­ly at Hermione.

'So, what are the prop­er­ties of moon­stone and its us­es in po­tion-​mak­ing?'

But Hermione was not lis­ten­ing; she was squint­ing over in­to the far cor­ner of the room, where Fred, George and Lee Jor­dan were now sit­ting at the cen­tre of a knot of in­no­cent-​look­ing first-​years, all of whom were chew­ing some­thing that seemed to have come out of a large pa­per bag that Fred was hold­ing.

'No, I'm sor­ry, they've gone too far,' she said, stand­ing up and look­ing pos­itive­ly fu­ri­ous. 'Come on, Ron.'

'1 - what?' said Ron, plain­ly play­ing for time. 'No - come on, Hermione - we can't tell them off for giv­ing out sweets.'

'You know per­fect­ly well that those are bits of Nose­bleed Nougat or - or Puk­ing Pastilles or -'

'Faint­ing Fan­cies?' Har­ry sug­gest­ed qui­et­ly.

One by one, as though hit over the head with an in­vis­ible mal­let, the first-​years were slump­ing un­con­scious in their seats; some slid right on to the floor, oth­ers mere­ly hung over the arms of their chairs, their tongues lolling out. Most of the peo­ple watch­ing were laugh­ing; Hermione, how­ev­er, squared her shoul­ders and marched di­rect­ly over to where Fred and George now stood with clip­boards, close­ly ob­serv­ing the un­con­scious first-​years. Ron rose halfway out of his chair, hov­ered un­cer­tain­ly for a mo­ment or two, then mut­tered to Har­ry, 'She's got it un­der con­trol,' be­fore sink­ing as low in his chair as his lanky frame per­mit­ted.

That's enough!' Hermione said force­ful­ly to Fred and George, both of whom looked up in mild sur­prise.

'Yeah, you're right,' said George, nod­ding, 'this dosage looks strong enough, doesn't it?'

'I told you this morn­ing, you can't test your rub­bish on stu­dents!'

'We're pay­ing them!' said Fred in­dig­nant­ly.

'I don't care, it could be dan­ger­ous!'

'Rub­bish,' said Fred.

'Calm down, Hermione, they're fine!' said Lee re­as­sur­ing­ly as he walked from first-​year to first-​year, in­sert­ing pur­ple sweets in­to their open mouths.

'Yeah, look, they're com­ing round now,' said George.

A few of the first-​years were in­deed stir­ring. Sev­er­al looked so shocked to find them­selves ly­ing on the floor, or dan­gling off their chairs, that Har­ry was sure Fred and George had not warned them what the sweets were go­ing to do.

'Feel all right?' said George kind­ly to a small dark-​haired girl ly­ing at his feet.

'I - I think so,' she said shak­ily.

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Fred hap­pi­ly, but the next sec­ond Hermione had snatched both his clip­board and the pa­per bag of Faint­ing Fan­cies from his hands.

'It is NOT ex­cel­lent!'

'Course it is, they're alive, aren't they?' said Fred an­gri­ly.

'You can't do this, what if you made one of them re­al­ly ill?'

'We're not go­ing to make them ill, we've al­ready test­ed them all on our­selves, this is just to see if ev­ery­one re­acts the same -'

'If you don't stop do­ing it, I'm go­ing to -'

'Put us in de­ten­tion?' said Fred, in an I'd-​like-​to-​see-​you-​try-​it voice.

'Make us write lines?' said George, smirk­ing.

On­look­ers all over the room were laugh­ing. Hermione drew her­self up to her full height; her eyes were nar­rowed and her bushy hair seemed to crack­le with elec­tric­ity.

'No,' she said, her voice quiv­er­ing with anger, 'but I will write to your moth­er.'

'You wouldn't,' said George, hor­ri­fied, tak­ing a step back from her.

'Oh, yes, I would,' said Hermione grim­ly. '1 can't stop you eat­ing the stupid things your­selves, but you're not to give them to the first-​years.'

Fred and George looked thun­der­struck. It was clear that as far as they were con­cerned, Hermione's threat was way be­low the belt. With a last threat­en­ing look at them, she thrust Fred's clip­board and the bag of Fan­cies back in­to his arms, and stalked back to her chair by the fire.

Ron was now so low in his seat that his nose was rough­ly lev­el with his knees.

Thank you for your sup­port, Ron,' Hermione said acid­ly.

'You han­dled it fine by your­self,' Ron mum­bled.

Hermione stared down at her blank piece of parch­ment for a few sec­onds, then said edg­ily, 'Oh, it's no good, I can't con­cen­trate now. I'm go­ing to bed.'

She wrenched her bag open; Har­ry thought she was about to put her books away, but in­stead she pulled out two mis­shapen wool­ly ob­jects, placed them care­ful­ly on a ta­ble by the fire­place, cov­ered them with a few screwed-​up bits of parch­ment and a bro­ken quill and stood back to ad­mire the ef­fect.

'What in the name of Mer­lin are you do­ing?' said Ron, watch­ing her as though fear­ful for her san­ity.

They're hats for house-​elves,' she said briskly, now stuff­ing her books back in­to her bag. 'I did them over the sum­mer. I'm a re­al­ly slow knit­ter with­out mag­ic but now I'm back at school I should be able to make lots more.'

'You're leav­ing out hats for the house-​elves?' said Ron slow­ly. 'And you're cov­er­ing them up with rub­bish first?'

'Yes,' said Hermione de­fi­ant­ly, swing­ing her bag on to her back.

That's not on,' said Ron an­gri­ly. 'You're try­ing to trick them in­to pick­ing up the hats. You're set­ting them free when they might not want to be free.'

'Of course they want to be free!' said Hermione at once, though

I

her face was turn­ing pink. 'Don't you dare touch those hats, Ron!'

She turned on her heel and left. Ron wait­ed un­til she had dis­ap­peared through the door to the girls' dor­mi­to­ries, then cleared the rub­bish off the wool­ly hats.

'They should at least see what they're pick­ing up,' he said firm­ly. 'Any­way…' he rolled up the parch­ment on which he had writ­ten the ti­tle of Snape's es­say, 'there's no point try­ing to fin­ish this now, I can't do it with­out Hermione, I haven't got a clue what you're sup­posed to do with moon­stones, have you?'

Har­ry shook his head, notic­ing as he did so that the ache in his right tem­ple was get­ting worse. He thought of the long es­say on gi­ant wars and the pain stabbed at him sharply. Know­ing per­fect­ly well that when the morn­ing came, he would re­gret not fin­ish­ing his home­work that night, he piled his books back in­to his bag.

'I'm go­ing to bed too.'

He passed Sea­mus on the way to the door lead­ing to the dor­mi­to­ries, but did not look at him. Har­ry had a fleet­ing im­pres­sion that Sea­mus had opened his mouth to speak, but he sped up and reached the sooth­ing peace of the stone spi­ral stair­case with­out hav­ing to en­dure any more provo­ca­tion.

*

The fol­low­ing day dawned just as lead­en and rainy as the pre­vi­ous one. Ha­grid was still ab­sent from the staff ta­ble at break­fast.

'But on the plus side, no Snape to­day' said Ron brac­ing­ly.

Hermione yawned wide­ly and poured her­self some cof­fee. She looked mild­ly pleased about some­thing, and when Ron asked her what she had to be so hap­py about, she sim­ply said, The hats have gone. Seems the house-​elves do want free­dom af­ter all.'

'1 wouldn't bet on it,' Ron told her cut­ting­ly. They might not count as clothes. They didn't look any­thing like hats to me, more like wool­ly blad­ders.'

Hermione did not speak to him all morn­ing.

Dou­ble Charms was suc­ceed­ed by dou­ble Trans­fig­ura­tion. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall both spent the first fif­teen min­utes of their lessons lec­tur­ing the class on the im­por­tance of OWLs.

'What you must re­mem­ber,' said lit­tle Pro­fes­sor Flitwick squeak­ily perched as ev­er on a pile of books so that he could see over the top of his desk, 'is that these ex­am­ina­tions may in­flu­ence your fu­tures for many years to come! If you have not al­ready giv­en se­ri­ous thought to your ca­reers, now is the time to do so. And in the mean­time, I'm afraid, we shall be work­ing hard­er than ev­er to en­sure that you all do your­selves jus­tice!'

They then spent over an hour re­vis­ing Sum­mon­ing Charms, which ac­cord­ing to Pro­fes­sor Flitwick were bound to come up in their OWL, and he round­ed off the les­son by set­ting them their largest ev­er amount of Charms home­work.

It was the same, if not worse, in Trans­fig­ura­tion.

'You can­not pass an OWL,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall grim­ly, 'with­out se­ri­ous ap­pli­ca­tion, prac­tice and study. I see no rea­son why ev­ery­body in this class should not achieve an OWL in Trans­fig­ura­tion as long as they put in the work.' Neville made a sad lit­tle dis­be­liev­ing noise. 'Yes, you too, Long­bot­tom,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. There's noth­ing wrong with your work ex­cept lack of con­fi­dence. So… to­day we are start­ing Van­ish­ing Spells. These are eas­ier than Con­jur­ing Spells, which you would not usu­al­ly at­tempt un­til NEWT lev­el, but they are still among the most dif­fi­cult mag­ic you will be test­ed on in your OWL.'

She was quite right; Har­ry found the Van­ish­ing Spells hor­ri­bly dif­fi­cult. By the end of a dou­ble pe­ri­od nei­ther he nor Ron had man­aged to van­ish the snails on which they were prac­tis­ing, though Ron said hope­ful­ly he thought his looked a bit paler. Hermione, on the oth­er hand, suc­cess­ful­ly van­ished her snail on the third at­tempt, earn­ing her a ten-​point bonus for Gryffind­or from Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. She was the on­ly per­son not giv­en home­work; ev­ery­body else was told to prac­tise the spell overnight, ready for a fresh at­tempt on their snails the fol­low­ing af­ter­noon.

Now pan­ick­ing slight­ly about the amount of home­work they had to do, Har­ry and Ron spent their lunch hour in the li­brary look­ing up the us­es of moon­stones in po­tion-​mak­ing. Still an­gry about Ron's slur on her wool­ly hats, Hermione did not join them. By the time they reached Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures in the af­ter­noon, Har­ry's head was aching again.

The day had be­come cool and breezy, and as they walked down the slop­ing lawn to­wards Ha­grid's cab­in on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est, they felt the oc­ca­sion­al drop of rain on their faces. Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank stood wait­ing for the class some ten yards from Ha­grid's front door, a long tres­tle ta­ble in front of her laden with twigs. As Har­ry and Ron reached her, a loud shout of laugh­ter sound­ed be­hind them; turn­ing, they saw Dra­co Mal­foy strid­ing to­wards them, sur­round­ed by his usu­al gang of Slytherin cronies. He had clear­ly just said some­thing high­ly amus­ing, be­cause Crabbe, Goyle, Pan­sy Parkin­son and the rest con­tin­ued to snig­ger hearti­ly as they gath­ered around the tres­tle ta­ble and, judg­ing by the way they all kept look­ing over at Har­ry, he was able to guess the sub­ject of the joke with­out too much dif­fi­cul­ty.

'Ev­ery­one here?' barked Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, once all the Slytherins and Gryffind­ors had ar­rived. 'Let's crack on then. Who can tell me what these things are called?'

She in­di­cat­ed the heap of twigs in front of her. Hermione's hand shot in­to the air. Be­hind her back, Mal­foy did a buck-​toothed im­ita­tion of her jump­ing up and down in ea­ger­ness to an­swer a ques­tion. Pan­sy Parkin­son gave a shriek of laugh­ter that turned al­most at once in­to a scream, as the twigs on the ta­ble leapt in­to the air and re­vealed them­selves to be what looked like tiny pix­ie-​ish crea­tures made of wood, each with knob­bly brown arms and legs, two twiglike fin­gers at the end of each hand and a fun­ny flat, bark­like face in which a pair of bee­tle-​brown eyes glit­tered.

'Oooooh!' said Par­vati and Laven­der, thor­ough­ly ir­ri­tat­ing Har­ry. Any­one would have thought Ha­grid had nev­er shown them im­pres­sive crea­tures; ad­mit­ted­ly, the Flob­ber­worms had been a bit dull, but the Sala­man­ders and Hip­pogriffs had been in­ter­est­ing enough, and the Blast-​End­ed Skrewts per­haps too much so.

'Kind­ly keep your voic­es down, girls!' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank sharply, scat­ter­ing a hand­ful of what looked like brown rice among the stick-​crea­tures, who im­me­di­ate­ly fell up­on the food. 'So - any­one know the names of these crea­tures? Miss Granger?'

'Bowtruck­les,' said Hermione. They're tree-​guardians, usu­al­ly live in wand-​trees.'

'Five points for Gryffind­or,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank. 'Yes, these are Bowtruck­les, and as Miss Granger right­ly says, they gen­er­al­ly live in trees whose wood is of wand qual­ity. Any­body know what they eat?'

'Woodlice,' said Hermione prompt­ly which ex­plained why what Har­ry had tak­en to be grains of brown rice were mov­ing. 'But fairy eggs if they can get them.'

'Good girl, take an­oth­er five points. So, when­ev­er you need leaves or wood from a tree in which a Bowtruck­le lodges, it is wise to have a gift of woodlice ready to dis­tract or pla­cate it. They may not look dan­ger­ous, but if an­gered they will try to gouge at hu­man eyes with their fin­gers, which, as you can see, are very sharp and not at all de­sir­able near the eye­balls. So if you'd like to gath­er clos­er, take a few woodlice and a Bowtruck­le - I have enough here for one be­tween three - you can study them more close­ly. I want a sketch from each of you with all body-​parts la­belled by the end of the les­son.'

The class surged for­wards around the tres­tle ta­ble. Har­ry de­lib­er­ate­ly cir­cled around the back so that he end­ed up right next to Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank.

'Where's Ha­grid?' he asked her, while ev­ery­one else was choos­ing Bowtruck­les.

'Nev­er you mind,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank re­pres­sive­ly, which had been her at­ti­tude last time Ha­grid had failed to turn up for a class, too. Smirk­ing all over his point­ed face, Dra­co Mal­foy leaned across Har­ry and seized the largest Bowtruck­le.

'Maybe,' said Mal­foy in an un­der­tone, so that on­ly Har­ry could hear him, 'the stupid great oaf's got him­self bad­ly in­jured.'

'Maybe you will if you don't shut up,' said Har­ry out of the side of his mouth.

'Maybe he's been mess­ing with stuff that's too big for him, if you get my drift.'

Mal­foy walked away, smirk­ing over his shoul­der at Har­ry, who felt sud­den­ly sick. Did Mal­foy know some­thing? His fa­ther was a Death Eater af­ter all; what if he had in­for­ma­tion about Ha­grid's fate that had not yet reached the ears of the Or­der? He hur­ried back around the ta­ble to Ron and Hermione who were squat­ting on the grass some dis­tance away and at­tempt­ing to per­suade a Bowtruck­le to re­main still long enough for them to draw it. Har­ry pulled out parch­ment and quill, crouched down be­side the oth­ers and re­lat­ed in a whis­per what Mal­foy had just said.

'Dum­ble­dore would know if some thing had hap­pened to Ha­grid,' said Hermione at once. 'It's just play­ing in­to Mal­foy's hands to look wor­ried; it tells him we don't know ex­act­ly what's go­ing on. We've got to ig­nore him, Har­ry. Here, hold the Bowtruck­le for a mo­ment, just so I can draw its face…'

'Yes,' came Mal­foy's clear drawl from the group near­est them, 'Fa­ther was talk­ing to the Min­is­ter just a cou­ple of days ago, you know, and it sounds as though the Min­istry's re­al­ly de­ter­mined to crack down on sub-​stan­dard teach­ing in this place. So even if that over­grown mo­ron does show up again, he'll prob­ably be sent pack­ing straight­away.'

'OUCH!'

Har­ry had gripped the Bowtruck­le so hard that it had al­most snapped, and it had just tak­en a great re­tal­ia­to­ry swipe at his hand with its sharp fin­gers, leav­ing two long deep cuts there. Har­ry dropped it. Crabbe and Goyle, who had al­ready been guf­faw­ing at the idea of Ha­grid be­ing sacked, laughed still hard­er as the Bowtruck­le set off at full tilt to­wards the For­est, a lit­tle mov­ing stick-​man soon swal­lowed up among the tree roots. When the bell echoed dis­tant­ly over the grounds, Har­ry rolled up his blood-​stained Bowtruck­le pic­ture and marched off to Her­bol­ogy with his hand wrapped in Hermione's hand­ker­chief, and Mal­foy's de­ri­sive laugh­ter still ring­ing in his ears.

'If he calls Ha­grid a mo­ron one more time…' said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth.

'Har­ry, don't go pick­ing a row with Mal­foy, don't for­get, he's a pre­fect now, he could make life dif­fi­cult for you…'

'Wow, I won­der what it'd be like to have a dif­fi­cult life?' said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. Ron laughed, but Hermione frowned. To­geth­er, they traipsed across the veg­etable patch. The sky still ap­peared un­able to make up its mind whether it want­ed to rain or not.

'I just wish Ha­grid would hur­ry up and get back, that's all,' said Har­ry in a low voice, as they reached the green­hous­es. 'And don't say that Grub­bly-​Plank wom­an's a bet­ter teach­er!' he added threat­en­ing­ly.

'I wasn't go­ing to,' said Hermione calm­ly.

'Be­cause she'll nev­er be as good as Ha­grid,' said Har­ry firm­ly, ful­ly aware that he had just ex­pe­ri­enced an ex­em­plary Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures les­son and was thor­ough­ly an­noyed about it.

The door of the near­est green­house opened and some fourth-​years spilled out of it, in­clud­ing Gin­ny.

'Hi,' she said bright­ly as she passed. A few sec­onds lat­er, Lu­na Love­good emerged, trail­ing be­hind the rest of the class, a smudge of earth on her nose, and her hair tied in a knot on the top of her head. When she saw Har­ry, her promi­nent eyes seemed to bulge ex­cit­ed­ly and she made a bee­line straight for him. Many of his class­mates turned cu­ri­ous­ly to watch. Lu­na took a great breath and then said, with­out so much as a pre­lim­inary hel­lo, 'I be­lieve He Who Must Not Be Named is back and I be­lieve you fought him and es­caped from him.'

'Er - right,' said Har­ry awk­ward­ly. Lu­na was wear­ing what looked like a pair of or­ange radish­es for ear­rings, a fact that Par­vati and Laven­der seemed to have no­ticed, as they were both gig­gling and point­ing at her ear­lobes.

'You can laugh,' Lu­na said, her voice ris­ing, ap­par­ent­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that Par­vati and Laven­der were laugh­ing at what she had said rather than what she was wear­ing, 'but peo­ple used to be­lieve there were no such things as the Blib­ber­ing Humdinger or the Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack!'

'Well, they were right, weren't they?' said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly. There weren't any such things as the Blib­ber­ing Humdinger or the Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack.'

Lu­na gave her a with­er­ing look and flounced away, radish­es swing­ing mad­ly Par­vati and Laven­der were not the on­ly ones hoot­ing with laugh­ter now.

'D'you mind not of­fend­ing the on­ly peo­ple who be­lieve me?' Har­ry asked Hermione as they made their way in­to class.

'Oh, for heav­en's sake, Har­ry, you can do bet­ter than her,' said Hermione. 'Gin­ny's told me all about her; ap­par­ent­ly, she'll on­ly be­lieve in things as long as there's no proof at all. Well, I wouldn't ex­pect any­thing else from some­one whose fa­ther runs The Quib­bler.'

Har­ry thought of the sin­is­ter winged hors­es he had seen on the night he had ar­rived and how Lu­na had said she could see them too. His spir­its sank slight­ly. Had she been ly­ing? But be­fore he could de­vote much more thought to the mat­ter, Ernie Macmil­lan had stepped up to him.

'I want you to know, Pot­ter,' he said in a loud, car­ry­ing voice, 'that it's not on­ly weirdos who sup­port you. I per­son­al­ly be­lieve you one hun­dred per cent. My fam­ily have al­ways stood firm be­hind Dum­ble­dore, and so do I.'

'Er - thanks very much, Ernie,' said Har­ry, tak­en aback but pleased. Ernie might be pompous on oc­ca­sions like this, but Har­ry was in a mood to deeply ap­pre­ci­ate a vote of con­fi­dence from some­body who did not have radish­es dan­gling from their ears. Ernie's words had cer­tain­ly wiped the smile from Laven­der Brown's face and as he turned to talk to Ron and Hermione, Har­ry caught Sea­muss ex­pres­sion, which looked both con­fused and de­fi­ant.

To no­body's sur­prise, Pro­fes­sor Sprout start­ed their les­son by lec­tur­ing them about the im­por­tance of OWLs. Har­ry wished all the teach­ers would stop do­ing this; he was start­ing to get an anx­ious, twist­ed feel­ing in his stom­ach ev­ery time he re­mem­bered how much home­work he had to do, a feel­ing that wors­ened dra­mat­ical­ly when Pro­fes­sor Sprout gave them yet an­oth­er es­say at the . end of class. Tired and smelling strong­ly of drag­on dung, Pro­fes­sor Sprout's pre­ferred type of fer­tilis­er, the Gryffind­ors trooped back up to the cas­tle an hour and a half lat­er, none of them talk­ing very much; it had been an­oth­er long day.

As Har­ry was starv­ing, and he had his first de­ten­tion with Um­bridge at five o'clock, he head­ed straight for din­ner with­out drop­ping off his bag in Gryffind­or Tow­er so that he could bolt some­thing down be­fore fac­ing what­ev­er she had in store for him. He had bare­ly reached the en­trance of the Great Hall, how­ev­er, when a loud and an­gry voice yelled, 'Oi, Pot­ter!'

'What now?' he mut­tered weari­ly, turn­ing to face An­geli­na John­son, who looked as though she was in a tow­er­ing tem­per.

'I'll tell you what now,' she said, march­ing straight up to him and pok­ing him hard in the chest with her fin­ger. 'How come you've land­ed your­self in de­ten­tion for five o'clock on Fri­day?'

'What?' said Har­ry. 'Why… oh yeah, Keep­er try­outs!'

'Now he re­mem­bers!' snarled An­geli­na. 'Didn't I tell you I want­ed to do a try­out with the whole team, and find some­one who fit­ted in with ev­ery­one! Didn't I tell you I'd booked the Quid­ditch pitch spe­cial­ly? And now you've de­cid­ed you're not go­ing to be there!'

'I didn't de­cide not to be there!' said Har­ry, stung by the in­jus­tice of these words. 'I got de­ten­tion from that Um­bridge wom­an, just be­cause I told her the truth about You-​Know-​Who.'

'Well, you can just go straight to her and ask her to let you off on Fri­day,' said An­geli­na fierce­ly, 'and I don't care how you do it. Tell her You-​Know-​Who's a fig­ment of your imag­ina­tion if you like, just make sure you re there}'

She turned on her heel and stormed away.

'You know what?' Har­ry said to Ron and Hermione as they en­tered the Great Hall. 'I think we'd bet­ter check with Pud­dle­mere Unit­ed whether Oliv­er Wood's been killed dur­ing a train­ing ses­sion, be­cause An­geli­na seems to be chan­nelling his spir­it.'

'What d'you reck­on are the odds of Um­bridge let­ting you off on Fri­day?' said Ron scep­ti­cal­ly, as they sat down at the Gryffind­or ta­ble.

'Less than ze­ro,' said Har­ry glum­ly, tip­ping lamb chops on to his plate and start­ing to eat. 'Bet­ter try, though, hadn't I? I'll of­fer to do two more de­ten­tions or some­thing, I dun­no…" He swal­lowed a mouth­ful of pota­to and added, 'I hope she doesn't keep me too long this evening. You re­alise we've got to write three es­says, prac­tise Van­ish­ing Spells for McG­ona­gall, work out a counter-​charm for Flitwick, fin­ish the Bowtruck­le draw­ing and start that stupid dream di­ary for Trelawney?'

Ron moaned and for some rea­son glanced up at the ceil­ing.

'And it looks like it's go­ing to rain.'

'What's that got to do with our home­work?' said Hermione, her eye­brows raised.

'Noth­ing,' said Ron at once, his ears red­den­ing.

At five to five Har­ry bade the oth­er two good­bye and set off for Um­bridge's of­fice on the third floor. When he knocked on the door she called, 'Come in,' in a sug­ary voice. He en­tered cau­tious­ly, look­ing around.

He had known this of­fice un­der three of its pre­vi­ous oc­cu­pants.

In the days when Gilderoy Lock­hart had lived here it had been plas­tered in beam­ing por­traits of him­self. When Lupin had oc­cu­pied it, it was like­ly you would meet some fas­ci­nat­ing Dark crea­ture in a cage or tank if you came to call. In the im­pos­tor Moody's days it had been packed with var­ious in­stru­ments and arte­facts for the de­tec­tion of wrong­do­ing and con­ceal­ment.

Now, how­ev­er, it looked to­tal­ly un­recog­nis­able. The sur­faces had all been draped in lacy cov­ers and cloths. There were sev­er­al vas­es full of dried flow­ers, each one re­sid­ing on its own doily, and on one of the walls was a col­lec­tion of or­na­men­tal plates, each dec­orat­ed with a large tech­ni­colour kit­ten wear­ing a dif­fer­ent bow around its neck. These were so foul that Har­ry stared at them, trans­fixed, un­til Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge spoke again.

'Good evening, Mr Pot­ter.'

Har­ry start­ed and looked around. He had not no­ticed her at first be­cause she was wear­ing a lurid­ly flow­ered set of robes that blend­ed on­ly too well with the table­cloth on the desk be­hind her.

'Evening, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge,' Har­ry said stiffly.

'Well, sit down,' she said, point­ing to­wards a small ta­ble draped in lace be­side which she had drawn up a straight-​backed chair. A piece of blank parch­ment lay on the ta­ble, ap­par­ent­ly wait­ing for him.

'Er,' said Har­ry, with­out mov­ing. 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Er - be­fore we start, I - I want­ed to ask you a… a favour.'

Her bulging eyes nar­rowed.

'Oh, yes?'

'Well, I'm… I'm in the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team. And I was sup­posed to be at the try­outs for the new Keep­er at five o'clock on Fri­day and I was - was won­der­ing whether I could skip de­ten­tion that night and do it - do it an­oth­er night… in­stead…'

He knew long be­fore he reached the end of his sen­tence that it was no good.

'Oh, no,' said Um­bridge, smil­ing so wide­ly that she looked as though she had just swal­lowed a par­tic­ular­ly juicy fly. 'Oh, no, no, no. This is your pun­ish­ment for spread­ing evil, nasty, at­ten­tion-​seek­ing sto­ries, Mr Pot­ter, and pun­ish­ments cer­tain­ly can­not be ad­just­ed to suit the guilty one's con­ve­nience. No, you will come

•r here at five o'clock to­mor­row, and the next day, and on Fri­day too, and you will do your de­ten­tions as planned. I think it rather a good thing that you are miss­ing some­thing you re­al­ly want to do. It ought to re­in­force the les­son I am try­ing to teach you.'

Har­ry felt the blood surge to his head and heard a thump­ing noise in his ears. So he told 'evil, nasty, at­ten­tion-​seek­ing stones', did he?

She was watch­ing him with her head slight­ly to one side, still smil­ing wide­ly, as though she knew ex­act­ly what he was think­ing and was wait­ing to see whether he would start shout­ing again. With a mas­sive ef­fort, Har­ry looked away from her, dropped his school­bag be­side the straight-​backed chair and sat down.

There,' said Um­bridge sweet­ly, 'we're get­ting bet­ter at con­trol­ling our tem­per al­ready, aren't we? Now, you are go­ing to be do­ing some lines for me, Mr Pot­ter. No, not with your quill,' she added, as Har­ry bent down to open his bag. 'You're go­ing to be us­ing a rather spe­cial one of mine. Here you are.'

She hand­ed him a long, thin black quill with an un­usu­al­ly sharp point.

'I want you to write, / must not tell lies,' she told him soft­ly.

'How many times?' Har­ry asked, with a cred­itable im­ita­tion of po­lite­ness.

'Oh, as long as it takes for the mes­sage to sink in,' said Um­bridge sweet­ly. 'Off you go.'

She moved over to her desk, sat down and bent over a stack of parch­ment that looked like es­says for mark­ing. Har­ry raised the sharp black quill, then re­alised what was miss­ing.

'You haven't giv­en me any ink,' he said.

'Oh, you won't need ink,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, with the mer­est sug­ges­tion of a laugh in her voice.

Har­ry placed the point of the quill on the pa­per and wrote: / must not tell lies.

He let out a gasp of pain. The words had ap­peared on the parch­ment in what ap­peared to be shin­ing red ink. At the same time, the words had ap­peared on the back of Har­rys right hand, cut in­to his skin as though traced there by a scalpel - yet even as he stared at the shin­ing cut, the skin healed over again, leav­ing the place where it had been slight­ly red­der than be­fore but quite smooth.

Har­ry looked round at Um­bridge. She was watch­ing him, her wide, toad­like mouth stretched in a smile.

'Yes?'

'Noth­ing,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

He looked back at the parch­ment, placed the quill on it once more, wrote I must not tell lies, and felt the sear­ing pain on the back of his hand for a sec­ond time; once again, the words had been cut in­to his skin; once again, they healed over sec­onds lat­er.

And on it went. Again and again Har­ry wrote the words on the parch­ment in what he soon came to re­alise was not ink, but his own blood. And, again and again, the words were cut in­to the back of his hand, healed, and reap­peared the next time he set quill to parch­ment.

Dark­ness fell out­side Um­bridge's win­dow. Har­ry did not ask when he would be al­lowed to stop. He did not even check his watch. He knew she was watch­ing him for signs of weak­ness and he was not go­ing to show any, not even if he had to sit there all night, cut­ting open his own hand with this quill…

'Come here,' she said, af­ter what seemed hours.

He stood up. His hand was sting­ing painful­ly. When he looked down at it he saw that the cut had healed, but that the skin there was red raw.

'Hand,' she said.

He ex­tend­ed it. She took it in her own. Har­ry re­pressed a shud­der as she touched him with her thick, stub­by fin­gers on which she wore a num­ber of ug­ly old rings.

Tut, tut, I don't seem to have made much of an im­pres­sion yet,' she said, smil­ing. 'Well, we'll just have to try again to­mor­row evening, won't we? You may go.'

Har­ry left her of­fice with­out a word. The school was quite de­sert­ed; it was sure­ly past mid­night. He walked slow­ly up the cor­ri­dor, then, when he had turned the cor­ner and was sure she would not hear him, broke in­to a run.

*

He had not had time to prac­tise Van­ish­ing Spells, had not writ­ten a sin­gle dream in his dream di­ary and had not fin­ished the draw­ing of the Bowtruck­le, nor had he writ­ten his es­says. He skipped break­fast next morn­ing to scrib­ble down a cou­ple of made-​up dreams for Div­ina­tion, their first les­son, and was sur­prised to find a di­shev­elled Ron keep­ing him com­pa­ny.

'How come you didn't do it last night?' Har­ry asked, as Ron stared wild­ly around the com­mon room for in­spi­ra­tion. Ron, who had been fast asleep when Har­ry got back to the dor­mi­to­ry, mut­tered some­thing about 'do­ing oth­er stuff, bent low over his parch­ment and scrawled a few words.

That'll have to do,' he said, slam­ming the di­ary shut. 'I've said I dreamed I was buy­ing a new pair of shoes, she can't make any­thing weird out of that, can she?'

They hur­ried off to North Tow­er to­geth­er.

'How was de­ten­tion with Um­bridge, any­way? What did she make you do?'

Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a frac­tion of a sec­ond, then said, 'Lines.'

That's not too bad, then, eh?' said Ron.

'Nope,' said Har­ry.

'Hey - I for­got - did she let you off for Fri­day?'

'No,' said Har­ry.

Ron groaned sym­pa­thet­ical­ly.

It was an­oth­er bad day for Har­ry; he was one of the worst in Trans­fig­ura­tion, not hav­ing prac­tised Van­ish­ing Spells at all. He had to give up his lunch hour to com­plete the pic­ture of the Bowtruck­le and, mean­while, Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Grub­bly-​Plank and Sin­is­tra gave them yet more home­work, which he had no prospect of fin­ish­ing that evening be­cause of his sec­ond de­ten­tion with Um­bridge. To cap it all, An­geli­na John­son tracked him down at din­ner again and, on learn­ing that he would not be able to at­tend Fri­day's Keep­er try­outs, told him she was not at all im­pressed by his at­ti­tude and that she ex­pect­ed play­ers who wished to re­main on the team to put train­ing be­fore their oth­er com­mit­ments.

'I'm in de­ten­tion!' Har­ry yelled af­ter her as she stalked away. 'D'you think I'd rather be stuck in a room with that old toad or play­ing Quid­ditch?'

'At least it's on­ly lines,' said Hermione con­sol­ing­ly, as Har­ry sank back on to his bench and looked down at his steak and kid­ney pie, which he no longer fan­cied very much. 'It's not as if it's a dread­ful pun­ish­ment, re­al­ly…"

Har­ry opened his mouth, closed it again and nod­ded. He was not re­al­ly sure why he was not telling Ron and Hermione ex­act­ly what was hap­pen­ing in Um­bridge's room: he on­ly knew that he did not want to see their looks of hor­ror; that would make the whole thing seem worse and there­fore more dif­fi­cult to face. He al­so felt dim­ly that this was be­tween him­self and Um­bridge, a pri­vate bat­tle of wills, and he was not go­ing to give her the sat­is­fac­tion of hear­ing that he had com­plained about it.

'I can't be­lieve how much home­work we've got,' said Ron mis­er­ably.

'Well, why didn't you do any last night?' Hermione asked him. 'Where were you, any­way?'

'I was… I fan­cied a walk,' said Ron shifti­ly.

Har­ry had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that he was not alone in con­ceal­ing things at the mo­ment.

*

The sec­ond de­ten­tion was just as bad as the pre­vi­ous one. The skin on the back of Har­ry's hand be­came ir­ri­tat­ed more quick­ly now and was soon red and in­flamed. Har­ry thought it un­like­ly that it would keep heal­ing as ef­fec­tive­ly for long. Soon the cut would re­main etched in­to his hand and Um­bridge would, per­haps, be sat­is­fied. He let no gasp of pain es­cape him, how­ev­er, and from the mo­ment of en­ter­ing the room to the mo­ment of his dis­missal, again past mid­night, he said noth­ing but 'good evening' and 'good­night'.

His home­work sit­ua­tion, how­ev­er, was now des­per­ate, and when he re­turned to the Gryffind­or com­mon room he did not, though ex­haust­ed, go to bed, but opened his books and be­gan Snape's moon­stone es­say. It was half past two by the time he had fin­ished it. He knew he had done a poor job, but there was no help for it; un­less he had some­thing to give in he would be in de­ten­tion with Snape next. He then dashed off an­swers to the ques­tions Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had set them, cob­bled to­geth­er some­thing on the prop­er han­dling of Bowtruck­les for Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, and stag­gered up to bed, where he fell ful­ly clothed on top of the cov­ers and fell asleep im­me­di­ate­ly.

X

Thurs­day passed in a haze of tired­ness. Ron seemed very sleepy too, though Har­ry could not see why he should be. Har­ry's third de­ten­tion passed in the same way as the pre­vi­ous two, ex­cept that af­ter two hours the words '/ must not tell lies' did not fade from the back of Har­rys hand, but re­mained scratched there, ooz­ing droplets of blood. The pause in the point­ed quill's scratch­ing made Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge look up.

'Ah,' she said soft­ly, mov­ing around her desk to ex­am­ine his hand her­self. 'Good. That ought to serve as a re­minder to you, oughtn't it? You may leave for tonight.'

'Do I still have to come back to­mor­row?' said Har­ry pick­ing up his school­bag with his left hand rather than his smart­ing right one.

'Oh yes,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, smil­ing as wide­ly as be­fore. 'Yes, I think we can etch the mes­sage a lit­tle deep­er with an­oth­er evening's work.'

Har­ry had nev­er be­fore con­sid­ered the pos­si­bil­ity that there might be an­oth­er teach­er in the world he hat­ed more than Snape, but as he walked back to­wards Gryffind­or Tow­er he had to ad­mit he had found a strong con­tender. She's evil, he thought, as he climbed a stair­case to the sev­enth floor, she's an evil, twist­ed, mad old-

'Ron?'

He had reached the top of the stairs, turned right and al­most walked in­to Ron, who was lurk­ing be­hind a stat­ue of Lach­lan the Lanky, clutch­ing his broom­stick. He gave a great leap of sur­prise when he saw Har­ry and at­tempt­ed to hide his new Clean­sweep Eleven be­hind his back.

'What are you do­ing?'

'Er - noth­ing. What are you do­ing?'

Har­ry frowned at him.

'Come on, you can tell me! What are you hid­ing here for?'

'I'm - I'm hid­ing from Fred and George, if you must know,' said Ron. They just went past with a bunch of first-​years, I bet they're test­ing stuff on them again. I mean, they can't do it in the com­mon room now, can they, not with Hermione there.'

He was talk­ing in a very fast, fever­ish way.

'But what have you got your broom for, you haven't been fly­ing, have you?' Har­ry asked.

'I - well - well, OK, I'll tell you, but don't laugh, all right?' Ron said de­fen­sive­ly, turn­ing red­der with ev­ery sec­ond. 'I - I thought I'd try out for Gryffind­or Keep­er now I've got a de­cent broom. There. Go on. Laugh.'

'I'm not laugh­ing,' said Har­ry. Ron blinked. 'It's a bril­liant idea! It'd be re­al­ly cool if you got on the team! I've nev­er seen you play Keep­er, are you good?'

'I'm not bad,' said Ron, who looked im­mense­ly re­lieved at Har­ry's re­ac­tion. 'Char­lie, Fred and George al­ways made me Keep for them when they were train­ing dur­ing the hol­idays.'

'So you've been prac­tis­ing tonight?'

'Ev­ery evening since Tues­day… just on my own, though. I've been try­ing to be­witch Quaf­fles to fly at me, but it hasn't been easy and I don't know how much use it'll be.' Ron looked ner­vous and anx­ious. 'Fred and George are go­ing to laugh them­selves stupid when I turn up for the try­outs. They haven't stopped tak­ing the mick­ey out of me since I got made a pre­fect.'

'I wish I was go­ing to be there,' said Har­ry bit­ter­ly, as they set off to­geth­er to­wards the com­mon room.

'Yeah, so do - Har­ry, what's that on the back of your hand?'

Har­ry, who had just scratched his nose with his free right hand, tried to hide it, but had as much suc­cess as Ron with his Clean­sweep.

'It's just a cut - it's noth­ing - it's -'

But Ron had grabbed Har­ry's fore­arm and pulled the back of Har­ry's hand up lev­el with his eyes. There was a pause, dur­ing which he stared at the words carved in­to the skin, then, look­ing sick, he re­leased Har­ry.

'I thought you said she was just giv­ing you lines?'

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, but af­ter all, Ron had been hon­est with him, so he told Ron the truth about the hours he had been spend­ing in Um­bridge's of­fice.

The old hag!' Ron said in a re­volt­ed whis­per as they came to a halt in front of the Fat La­dy, who was doz­ing peace­ful­ly with her head against her frame. 'She's sick! Go to McG­ona­gall, say some­thing!'

'No,' said Har­ry at once. 'I'm not giv­ing her the sat­is­fac­tion of know­ing she's got to me.'

'Got to you? You can't let her get away with this!'

'I don't know how much pow­er McG­ona­gall's got over her,' said Har­ry.

'Dum­ble­dore, then, tell Dum­ble­dore!'

'No,' said Har­ry flat­ly.

'Why not?'

'He's got enough on his mind,' said Har­ry, but that was not the true rea­son. He was not go­ing to go to Dum­ble­dore for help when Dum­ble­dore had not spo­ken to him once since June.

'Well, I reck­on you should -' Ron be­gan, but he was in­ter­rupt­ed by the Fat La­dy, who had been watch­ing them sleep­ily and now burst out, 'Are you go­ing to give me the pass­word or will I have to stay awake all night wait­ing for you to fin­ish your con­ver­sa­tion?'

*

Fri­day dawned sullen and sod­den as the rest of the week. Though Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly glanced to­wards the staff ta­ble when he en­tered the Great Hall, it was with­out any re­al hope of see­ing Ha­grid, and he turned his mind im­me­di­ate­ly to his more press­ing prob­lems, such as the moun­tain­ous pile of home­work he had to do and the prospect of yet an­oth­er de­ten­tion with Um­bridge.

Two things sus­tained Har­ry that day. One was the thought that it was al­most the week­end; the oth­er was that, dread­ful though his fi­nal de­ten­tion with Um­bridge was sure to be, he had a dis­tant view of the Quid­ditch pitch from her win­dow and might, with luck, be able to see some­thing of Ron's try­out. These were rather fee­ble rays of light, it was true, but Har­ry was grate­ful for any­thing that might light­en his present dark­ness; he had nev­er had a worse first week of term at Hog­warts.

At five o'clock that evening he knocked on Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's of­fice door for what he sin­cere­ly hoped would be the fi­nal time, and was told to en­ter. The blank parch­ment lay ready for him on the lace-​cov­ered ta­ble, the point­ed black quill be­side it.

'You know what to do, Mr Pot­ter,' said Um­bridge, smil­ing sweet­ly at him.

Har­ry picked up the quill and glanced through the win­dow. If he just shift­ed his chair an inch or so to the right… on the pre­text of shift­ing him­seli clos­er to the ta­ble, he man­aged it. He now had a dis­tant view of the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team soar­ing up and down the pitch, while half a dozen black fig­ures stood at the foot of the three high goal­posts, ap­par­ent­ly await­ing their turn to Keep. It was im­pos­si­ble to tell which one was Ron at this dis­tance.

I must not tell lies, Har­ry wrote. The cut in the back of his right hand opened and be­gan to bleed atresh.

I must not tell lies. The cut dug deep­er, sting­ing and smart­ing.

I must not tell lies. Blood trick­led down his wrist.

He chanced an­oth­er glance out of the win­dow. Who­ev­er was de­fend­ing the goal­posts now was do­ing a very poor job in­deed. Katie Bell scored twice in the few sec­onds Har­ry dared to watch. Hop­ing very much that the Keep­er wasn't Ron, he dropped his eyes back to the parch­ment shin­ing with blood.

I must not tell lies.

I must not tell lies.

He looked up when­ev­er he thought he could risk it; when he could hear the scratch­ing of Um­bridges quill or the open­ing of a desk draw­er. The third per­son to try out was pret­ty good, the fourth was ter­ri­ble, the fifth dodged a Bludger ex­cep­tion­al­ly well but then fum­bled an easy save. The sky was dark­en­ing, and Har­ry doubt­ed he would be able to see the sixth and sev­enth peo­ple at all.

I must not tell lies.

I must not tell lies.

The parch­ment was now dot­ted with drops of blood from the back of his hand, which was sear­ing with pain. When he next looked up, night had fall­en and the Quid­ditch pitch was no longer vis­ible.

'Let's see if you've got the mes­sage yet, shall we?' said Um­bridges soft voice half an hour lat­er.

She moved to­wards him, stretch­ing out her short ringed fin­gers for his arm. And then, as she took hold of him to ex­am­ine the words now cut in­to his skin, pain seared, not across the back of his hand, but across the scar on his fore­head. At the same time, he had a most pe­cu­liar sen­sa­tion some­where around his midriff.

He wrenched his arm out of her grip and leapt to his feet, star­ing at her. She looked back at him, a smile stretch­ing her wide, slack mouth.

'Yes, it hurts, doesn't it?' she said soft­ly.

He did not an­swer. His heart was thump­ing very hard and fast. Was she talk­ing about his hand or did she know what he had just felt in his fore­head?

'Well, I think I've made my point, Mr Pot­ter. You may go.'

He caught up his school­bag and left the room as quick­ly as he could.

Stay calm, he told him­self, as he sprint­ed up the stairs. Stay calm, it doesn't nec­es­sar­ily mean what you think it means…

'Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia!' he gasped at the Fat La­dy, who swung for­wards once more.

A roar of sound greet­ed him. Ron came run­ning to­wards him, beam­ing all over his face and slop­ping But­ter­beer down his front from the gob­let he was clutch­ing.

'Har­ry, I did it, I'm in, I'm Keep­er!'

'What? Oh - bril­liant!' said Har­ry, try­ing to smile nat­ural­ly, while his heart con­tin­ued to race and his hand throbbed and bled.

'Have a But­ter­beer.' Ron pressed a bot­tle on him. '1 can't be­lieve it - where's Hermione gone?'

'She's there,' said Fred, who was al­so swig­ging But­ter­beer, and point­ed to an arm­chair by the fire. Hermione was doz­ing in it, her drink tip­ping pre­car­ious­ly in her hand.

'Well, she said she was pleased when I told her,' said Ron, look­ing slight­ly put out.

'Let her sleep,' said George hasti­ly. It was a few mo­ments be­fore Har­ry no­ticed that sev­er­al of the first-​years gath­ered around them bore un­mis­take­able signs of re­cent nose­bleeds.

'Come here, Ron, and see if Oliv­er's old robes fit you,' called Katie Bell, 'we can take off his name and put yours on in­stead…'

As Ron moved away, An­geli­na came strid­ing up to Har­ry.

'Sor­ry I was a bit short with you ear­li­er, Pot­ter,' she said abrupt­ly. 'It's stress­ful this man­ag­ing lark, you know, I'm start­ing to think I was a bit hard on Wood some­times.' She was watch­ing Ron over the rim of her gob­let with a slight frown on her face.

'Look, I know he's your best mate, but he's not fab­ulous,' she said blunt­ly. 'I think with a bit of train­ing he'll be all right, though. He comes from a fam­ily of good Quid­ditch play­ers. I'm bank­ing on him turn­ing out to have a bit more tal­ent than he showed to­day, to be hon­est. Vicky Fro­bish­er and Ge­of­frey Hoop­er both flew bet­ter this evening, but Hoop­ers a re­al whin­er, he's al­ways moan­ing about some­thing or oth­er, and Vicky's in­volved in all sorts of so­ci­eties. She ad­mit­ted her­self that if train­ing clashed with her Charms Club she'd put Charms first. Any­way, we're hav­ing a prac­tice ses­sion at two o'clock to­mor­row, so just make sure you're there this time. And do me a favour and help Ron as much as you can, OK?'

He nod­ded, and An­geli­na strolled back to Ali­cia Spin­net. Har­ry moved over to sit next to Hermione, who awoke with a jerk as he put down his bag.

'Oh, Har­ry, it's you… good about Ron, isn't it?' she said bleari­ly. 'I'm just so-​so - so tired,' she yawned. 'I was up un­til one o'clock mak­ing more hats. They're dis­ap­pear­ing like mad!'

And sure enough, now that he looked, Har­ry saw that there were wool­ly hats con­cealed all around the room where un­wary elves might ac­ci­den­tal­ly pick them up.

'Great,' said Har­ry dis­tract­ed­ly; if he did not tell some­body soon, he would burst. 'Lis­ten, Hermione, I was just up in Um­bridge's of­fice and she touched my arm

Hermione lis­tened close­ly. When Har­ry had (in­ished, she said slow­ly 'You're wor­ried You-​Know-​Who's con­trol­ling her like he con­trolled Quir­rell?'

'Well,' said Har­ry, drop­ping his voice, 'it's a pos­si­bil­ity, isn't it?'

'I sup­pose so,' said Hermione, though she sound­ed un­con­vinced. 'But I don't think he can be pos­sess­ing her the way he pos­sessed Quir­rell, I mean, he's prop­er­ly alive again now, isn't he, he's got his own body, he wouldn't need to share some­one else's. He could have her un­der the Im­perius Curse, I sup­pose…"

Har­ry watched Fred, George and Lee Jor­dan jug­gling emp­ty But­ter­beer bot­tles for a mo­ment. Then Hermione said, 'But last year your scar hurt when no­body was touch­ing you, and didn't Dum­ble­dore say it had to do with what You-​Know-​Who was feel­ing at the time? I mean, maybe this hasn't got any­thing to do with

Um­bridge at all, maybe it's just co­in­ci­dence it hap­pened while you were with her?'

'She's evil,' said Har­ry flat­ly. Twist­ed.'

'She's hor­ri­ble, yes, but… Har­ry, I think you ought to tell Dum­ble­dore your scar hurt.'

It was the sec­ond time in two days he had been ad­vised to go to Dum­ble­dore and his an­swer to Hermione was just the same as his an­swer to Ron.

'I'm not both­er­ing him with this. Like you just said, its not a big deal. It's been hurt­ing on and off all sum­mer - it was just a bit worse tonight, that's all -'

'Har­ry, I'm sure Dum­ble­dore would want to be both­ered by this -'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self, 'that's the on­ly bit of me Dum­ble­dore cares about, isn't it, my scar?'

'Don't say that, it's not true!'

'I think I'll write and tell Sir­ius about it, see what he thinks -'

'Har­ry, you can't put some­thing like that in a let­ter!' said Hermione, look­ing alarmed. 'Don't you re­mem­ber, Moody told us to be care­ful what we put in writ­ing! We just can't guar­an­tee owls aren't be­ing in­ter­cept­ed any more!'

'All right, all right, I won't tell him, then!' said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly. He got to his feet. 'I'm go­ing to bed. Tell Ron for me, will you?'

'Oh no,' said Hermione, look­ing re­lieved, 'if you're go­ing that means I can go too, with­out be­ing rude. I'm ab­so­lute­ly ex­haust­ed and I want to make some more hats to­mor­row. Lis­ten, you can help me if you like, it's quite fun, I'm get­ting bet­ter, I can do pat­terns and bob­bles and all sorts of things now.'

Har­ry looked in­to her face, which was shin­ing with glee, and tried to look as though he was vague­ly tempt­ed by this of­fer.

'Er… no, I don't think I will, thanks,' he said. 'Er- not to­mor­row. I've got loads of home­work to do…'

And he traipsed off to the boys' stairs, leav­ing her look­ing slight­ly dis­ap­point­ed.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 14 - Percy and Padfoot


Har­ry was first to wake up in his dor­mi­to­ry next morn­ing. He lay for a mo­ment watch­ing dust swirl in the ray of sun­light com­ing through the gap in his four-​posters hang­ings, and savoured the thought that it was Sat­ur­day. The first week of term seemed to have dragged on for ev­er, like one gi­gan­tic His­to­ry of Mag­ic les­son.

Judg­ing by the sleepy si­lence and the fresh­ly mint­ed look of that beam of sun­light, it was just af­ter day­break. He pulled open the cur­tains around his bed, got up and start­ed to dress. The on­ly sound apart from the dis­tant twit­ter­ing of birds was the slow, deep breath­ing of his fel­low Gryffind­ors. He opened his school­bag care­ful­ly, pulled out parch­ment and quill and head­ed out of the dor­mi­to­ry for the com­mon room.

Mak­ing straight for his favourite squashy old arm­chair be­side the now ex­tinct fire, Har­ry set­tled him­self down com­fort­ably and un­rolled his parch­ment while look­ing around the room. The de­tri­tus of crum­pled-​up bits of parch­ment, old Gob­stones, emp­ty in­gre­di­ent jars and sweet wrap­pers that usu­al­ly cov­ered the com­mon room at the end of each day was gone, as were all Hermione's elf hats. Won­der­ing vague­ly how many elves had now been set free whether they want­ed to be or not, Har­ry un­corked his ink bot­tle, dipped his quill in­to it, then held it sus­pend­ed an inch above the smooth yel­low­ish sur­face of his parch­ment, think­ing hard… but af­ter a minute or so he found him­self star­ing in­to the emp­ty grate, at a com­plete loss for what to say.

He could now ap­pre­ci­ate how hard it had been for Ron and Hermione to write him let­ters over the sum­mer. How was he sup­posed to tell Sir­ius ev­ery­thing that had hap­pened over the past week and pose all the ques­tions he was burn­ing to ask with­out giv­ing po­ten­tial let­ter-​thieves a lot of in­for­ma­tion he did not want them to have?

He sat quite mo­tion­less for a while, gaz­ing in­to the fire­place,: then, fi­nal­ly com­ing to a de­ci­sion, he dipped his quill in­to the ink bot­tle once more and set it res­olute­ly on the parch­ment.

Dear Snuf­fles,

Hope you're OK, the first week back here's been ter­ri­ble, I'm re­al­ly

glad it's the week­end.

We've got a new De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. She's near­ly as nice as your mum. I'm writ­ing be­cause that thing I wrote to you about last sum­mer hap­pened again last night when I was do­ing a de­ten­tion with Um­bridge.

We're all miss­ing our biggest friend, we hope he'll be back soon.

Please write back quick­ly.

Best,

Har­ry

Har­ry reread the let­ter sev­er­al times, try­ing to see it from the point of view of an out­sider. He could not see how they would know what he was talk­ing about - or who he was talk­ing to - just from read­ing this let­ter. He did hope Sir­ius would pick up the hint about Ha­grid and tell them when he might be back. Har­ry did not want to ask di­rect­ly in case it drew too much at­ten­tion to what Ha­grid might be up to while he was not at Hog­warts.

Con­sid­er­ing it was a very short let­ter, it had tak­en a long time to write; sun­light had crept halfway across the room while he had been work­ing on it and he could now hear dis­tant sounds of move­ment from the dor­mi­to­ries above. Seal­ing the parch­ment care­ful­ly, he climbed through the por­trait hole and head­ed off for the Owlery.

'I would not go that way if I were you,' said Near­ly Head­less Nick, drift­ing dis­con­cert­ing­ly through a wall just ahead of Har­ry as he walked down the pas­sage. 'Peeves is plan­ning an amus­ing joke on the next per­son to pass the bust of Paracel­sus halfway down the cor­ri­dor.'

'Does it in­volve Paracel­sus falling on top of the per­sons head?' asked Har­ry.

'Fun­ni­ly enough, it does,' said Near­ly Head­less Nick in a bored voice. 'Sub­tle­ty has nev­er been Peeves's strong point. I'm off to try and find the Bloody Baron… he might be able to put a stop to it… see you, Har­ry

'Yeah, bye,' said Har­ry and in­stead of turn­ing right, he turned left, tak­ing a longer but safer route up to the Owlery. His spir­its rose as he walked past win­dow af­ter win­dow show­ing bril­liant­ly blue sky; he had train­ing lat­er, he would be back on the Quid­ditch pitch at last.

Some­thing brushed his an­kles. He looked down and saw the care­tak­er's skele­tal grey cat, Mrs. Norns, slink­ing past him. She turned lam­plike yel­low eyes on him for a mo­ment be­fore dis­ap­pear­ing be­hind a stat­ue of Wil­fred the Wist­ful.

'I'm not do­ing any­thing wrong,' Har­ry called af­ter her. She had the un­mis­take­able air of a cat that was ofi to re­port to her boss, yet Har­ry could not see why; he was per­fect­ly en­ti­tled to walk up to the Owlery on a Sat­ur­day morn­ing.

The sun was high in the sky now and when Har­ry en­tered the Owlery the glass­less win­dows daz­zled his eyes; thick sil­very beams of sun­light criss­crossed the cir­cu­lar room in which hun­dreds of owls nes­tled on rafters, a lit­tle rest­less in the ear­ly-​morn­ing light, some clear­ly just re­turned from hunt­ing. The straw-​cov­ered floor crunched a lit­tle as he stepped across tiny an­imal bones, cran­ing his neck for a sight of Hed­wig.

There you are,' he said, spot­ting her some­where near the very top of the vault­ed ceil­ing. 'Get down here, I've got a let­ter for you."

With a low hoot she stretched her great white wings and soared down on to his shoul­der.

'Right, I know this says Snuf­fles on the out­side,' he told her, giv­ing her the let­ter to clasp in her beak and, with­out know­ing ex­act­ly why, whis­per­ing, 'but it's for Sir­ius, OK?'

She blinked her am­ber eyes once and he took that to mean that she un­der­stood.

'Safe flight, then,' said Har­ry and he car­ried her to one of the win­dows; with a mo­ment's pres­sure on his arm, Hed­wig took off in­to the blind­ing­ly bright sky. He watched her un­til she be­came a tiny black speck and van­ished, then switched his gaze to Ha­grid's hut, clear­ly vis­ible from this win­dow, and just as clear­ly un­in­hab­it­ed, the chim­ney smoke­less, the cur­tains drawn.

The tree­tops of the For­bid­den For­est swayed in a light breeze. Har­ry watched them, savour­ing the fresh air on his face, think­ing about Quid­ditch lat­er… then he saw it. A great, rep­til­ian winged horse, just like the ones pulling the Hog­warts car­riages, with leath­ery black wings spread wide like a ptero­dactyl's, rose up out of the trees like a grotesque, gi­ant bird. It soared in a great cir­cle, then plunged back in­to the trees. The whole thing had hap­pened so quick­ly, Har­ry could hard­ly be­lieve what he had seen, ex­cept that his heart was ham­mer­ing mad­ly.

The Owlery door opened be­hind him. He leapt in shock and, turn­ing quick­ly, saw Cho Chang hold­ing a let­ter and a par­cel in her hands.

'Hi,' said Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly.

'Oh… hi,' she said breath­less­ly. 'I didn't think any­one would be up here this ear­ly… I on­ly re­mem­bered five min­utes ago, it's my mum's birth­day.'

She held up the par­cel.

'Right,' said Har­ry. His brain seemed to have jammed. He want­ed to say some­thing fun­ny and in­ter­est­ing, but the mem­ory of that ter­ri­ble winged horse was fresh in his mind.

'Nice day,' he said, ges­tur­ing to the win­dows. His in­sides seemed to shriv­el with em­bar­rass­ment. The weath­er. He was talk­ing about the weath­er…

'Yeah,' said Cho, look­ing around for a suit­able owl. 'Good Quid­ditch con­di­tions. I haven't been out all week, have you?'

'No,' said Har­ry.

Cho had se­lect­ed one of the school barn owls. She coaxed it down on to her arm where it held out an oblig­ing leg so that she could at­tach the par­cel.

'Hey, has Gryffind­or got a new Keep­er yet?' she asked.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'It's my friend Ron Weasley, d'you know him?'

The Tor­na­dos-​hater?' said Cho rather cool­ly. 'Is he any good?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, 'I think so. I didn't see his try­out, though, I was in de­ten­tion.'

Cho looked up, the par­cel on­ly half-​at­tached to the owl's legs.

That Um­bridge wom­an's foul,' she said in a low voice. 'Putting you in de­ten­tion just be­cause you told the truth about how - how - how he died. Ev­ery­one heard about it, it was all over the school. You were re­al­ly brave stand­ing up to her like that.'

Har­ry's in­sides re-​in­flat­ed so rapid­ly he felt as though he might ac­tu­al­ly float a few inch­es off the drop­ping-​strewn floor. Who cared about a stupid fly­ing horse; Cho thought he had been re­al­ly brave. For a mo­ment, he con­sid­ered ac­ci­den­tal­ly-​on-​pur­pose show­ing her his cut hand as he helped her tie her par­cel on to her owl… but the very in­stant this thrilling thought oc­curred, the Owlery door opened again.

Filch the care­tak­er came wheez­ing in­to the room. There were pur­ple patch­es on his sunken, veined cheeks, his jowls were aquiver and his thin grey hair di­shev­elled; he had ob­vi­ous­ly run here. Mrs. Nor­ris came trot­ting at his heels, gaz­ing up at the owls over­head and mew­ing hun­gri­ly. There was a rest­less shift­ing of wings from above and a large brown owl snapped his beak in a men­ac­ing fash­ion.

'Aha!' said Filch, tak­ing a flat-​foot­ed step to­wards Har­ry, his pouchy cheeks trem­bling with anger. 'I've had a tip-​off that you are in­tend­ing to place a mas­sive or­der for Dung­bomb­sP

Har­ry fold­ed his arms and stared at the care­tak­er.

'Who told you I was or­der­ing Dung­bombs?'

Cho was look­ing from Har­ry to Filch, al­so frown­ing; the barn owl on her arm, tired of stand­ing on one leg, gave an ad­mon­ito­ry hoot but she ig­nored it.

'I have my sources,' said Filch in a self-​sat­is­fied hiss. 'Now hand over what­ev­er it is you're send­ing.'

Feel­ing im­mense­ly thank­ful that he had not daw­dled in post­ing off the let­ter, Har­ry said, 'I can't, it's gone.'

'Gone?' said Filch, his face con­tort­ing with rage.

'Gone,' said Har­ry calm­ly.

Filch opened his mouth fu­ri­ous­ly, mouthed for a few sec­onds, then raked Har­rys robes with his eyes.

'How do I know you haven't got it in your pock­et?'

'Be­cause -'

'I saw him send it,' said Cho an­gri­ly.

Filch round­ed on her.

'You saw him -?'

That's right, I saw him,' she said fierce­ly.

There was a mo­ments pause in which Filch glared at Cho and Cho glared right back, then the care­tak­er turned on his heel and shuf­fled back to­wards the door. He stopped with his hand on the han­dle and looked back at Har­ry.

'If I get so much as a whiff of a Dung­bomb

He stumped off down the stairs. Mrs. Nor­ris cast a last long­ing look at the owls and fol­lowed him.

Har­ry and Cho looked at each oth­er.

Thanks,' Har­ry said.

'No prob­lem,' said Cho, fi­nal­ly fix­ing the par­cel to the barn owl's oth­er leg, her face slight­ly pink. 'You weren't or­der­ing Dung­bombs, were you?'

'No,' said Har­ry.

'I won­der why he thought you were, then?' she said as she car­ried the owl to the win­dow.

Har­ry shrugged. He was quite as mys­ti­fied by that as she was, though odd­ly it was not both­er­ing him very much at the mo­ment.

They left the Owlery to­geth­er. At the en­trance of a cor­ri­dor that led to­wards the west wing of the cas­tle, Cho said, 'I'm go­ing this way. Well, I'll… I'll see you around, Har­ry.'

'Yeah… see you.'

She smiled at him and de­part­ed. Har­ry walked on, feel­ing qui­et­ly elat­ed. He had man­aged to have an en­tire con­ver­sa­tion with her and not em­bar­rassed him­self once… you were re­al­ly brave stand­ing up to her like that… Cho had called him brave… she did not hate him for be­ing alive…

Ol course, she had pre­ferred Cedric, he knew that… though if he'd on­ly asked her to the Ball be­fore Cedric had, things might have turned out dif­fer­ent­ly… she had seemed sin­cere­ly sor­ry that she'd had to refuse when Har­ry asked her…

'Morn­ing,' Har­ry said bright­ly to Ron and Hermione as he joined them at the Gryffind­or ta­ble in the Great Hall.

'What are you look­ing so pleased about?' said Ron, eye­ing Har­ry in sur­prise.

'Erm… Quid­ditch lat­er,' said Har­ry hap­pi­ly, pulling a large plat­ter of ba­con and eggs to­wards him.

'Oh… yeah…' said Ron. He put down the piece of toast he was eat­ing and took a large swig of pump­kin juice. Then he said, 'Lis­ten… you don't fan­cy go­ing out a bit ear­li­er with me, do you? Just to - er - give me some prac­tice be­fore train­ing? So I can, you know, get my eye in a bit.'

'Yeah, OK,' said Har­ry.

'Look, I don't think you should,' said Hermione se­ri­ous­ly. 'You're both re­al­ly be­hind on home­work as it -'

But she broke off; the morn­ing post was ar­riv­ing and, as usu­al, the Dai­ly Prophet was soar­ing to­wards her in the beak of a screech owl, which land­ed per­ilous­ly close to the sug­ar bowl and held out a leg. Hermione pushed a Knut in­to its leather pouch, took the news­pa­per, and scanned the front page crit­ical­ly as the owl took off.

'Any­thing in­ter­est­ing?' said Ron. Har­ry grinned, know­ing Ron was keen to keep her off the sub­ject of home­work.

'No,' she sighed, 'just some guff about the bass play­er in the Weird Sis­ters get­ting mar­ried.'

Hermione opened the pa­per and dis­ap­peared be­hind it. Har­ry de­vot­ed him­self to an­oth­er help­ing of eggs and ba­con. Ron was star­ing up at the high win­dows, look­ing slight­ly pre­oc­cu­pied.

'Wait a mo­ment,' said Hermione sud­den­ly. 'Oh no… Sir­ius!'

'What's hap­pened?' said Har­ry, snatch­ing at the pa­per so vi­olent­ly it ripped down the mid­dle, with him and Hermione each hold­ing one half.

'“The Min­istry of Mag­ic has re­ceived a tip-​off from a re­li­able source that Sir­ius Black, no­to­ri­ous mass mur­der­er… blah blah blah… is cur­rent­ly hid­ing in Lon­don !”' Hermione read from her half in an an­guished whis­per.

'Lu­cius Mal­foy I'll bet any­thing,' said Har­ry in a low, fu­ri­ous voice. 'He did recog­nise Sir­ius on the plat­form…'

'What?' said Ron, look­ing alarmed. 'You didn't say -'

'Shh!' said the oth­er two.

… “Min­istry warns wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty that Black is very dan­ger­ous… killed thir­teen peo­ple… broke out of Azk­aban …” the usu­al rub­bish,' Hermione con­clud­ed, lay­ing down her half of the pa­per and look­ing fear­ful­ly at Har­ry and Ron. 'Well, he just won't be able to leave the house again, that's all,' she whis­pered. 'Dum­ble­dore did warn him not to.'

Har­ry looked down glum­ly at the bit ol the Prophet he had torn off. Most of the page was de­vot­ed to an ad­ver­tise­ment for Madam Malkins Robes for All Oc­ca­sions, which was ap­par­ent­ly hav­ing a sale.

'Hey!' he said, flat­ten­ing it down so Hermione and Ron could see it. 'Look at this!'

'I've got all the robes I want,' said Ron.

'No,' said Har­ry. 'Look… this lit­tle piece here…'

Ron and Hermione bent clos­er to read it; the item was bare­ly an inch long and placed right at the bot­tom of a col­umn. It was head­lined:

TRES­PASS AT MIN­ISTRY

Stur­gis Pod­more, 38, of num­ber two, Labur­num Gar­dens, Clapham, has ap­peared in front of the Wiz­eng­amot charged with tres­pass and at­tempt­ed rob­bery at the Min­istry of Mag­ic on 3ISI Au­gust. Pod­more was ar­rest­ed by Min­istry of Mag­ic watch­wiz­ard Er­ic Munch, who found him at­tempt­ing to force his way through a top-​se­cu­ri­ty door at one o'clock in the morn­ing. Pod­more, who re­fused to speak in his own de­fence, was con­vict­ed on both charges and sen­tenced to six months in Azk­aban.

'Stur­gis Pod­more?' said Ron slow­ly. 'He's that bloke who looks like his head's been thatched, isn't he? He's one of the Ord—'

'Ron, shh!' said Hermione, cast­ing a ter­ri­fied look around them.

'Six months in Azk­aban!' whis­pered Har­ry, shocked. 'Just for try­ing to get through a door!'

'Don't be sil­ly, it wasn't just for try­ing to get through a door. What on earth was he do­ing at the Min­istry of Mag­ic at one o'clock in the morn­ing?' breathed Hermione.

'D'you reck­on he was do­ing some­thing for the Or­der?' Ron mut­tered.

'Wait a mo­ment…' said Har­ry slow­ly. 'Stur­gis was sup­posed to come and see us off, re­mem­ber?'

The oth­er two looked at him.

'Yeah, he was sup­posed to be part of our guard go­ing to King's Cross, re­mem­ber? And Moody was all an­noyed be­cause he didn't turn up; so he couldn't have been on a job for them, could he?'

'Well, maybe they didn't ex­pect him to get caught,' said Hermione.

'It could be a frame-​up!' Ron ex­claimed ex­cit­ed­ly. 'No - lis­ten!' he went on, drop­ping his voice dra­mat­ical­ly at the threat­en­ing look on Hermione's face. The Min­istry sus­pects he's one of Dum­ble­dore's lot so - I dun­no - they lured him to the Min­istry, and he wasn't try­ing to get through a door at all! Maybe they've just made some­thing up to get him!'

There was a pause while Har­ry and Hermione con­sid­ered this. Har­ry thought it seemed far-​fetched. Hermione, on the oth­er hand, looked rather im­pressed.

'Do you know, I wouldn't be at all sur­prised if that were true.'

She fold­ed up her half of the news­pa­per thought­ful­ly. As Har­ry laid down his knife and fork, she seemed to come out of a rever­ie.

'Right, well, I think we should tack­le that es­say for Sprout on self-​fer­til­is­ing shrubs first and if we're lucky we'll be able to start McG­ona­gall's Inan­ima­tus Con­ju­rus Spell be­fore lunch…'

Har­ry felt a small twinge of guilt at the thought of the pile of home­work await­ing him up­stairs, but the sky was a clear, ex­hil­arat­ing blue, and he had not been on his Fire­bolt for a week…

'I mean, we can do it tonight,' said Ron, as he and Har­ry walked down the slop­ing lawns to­wards the Quid­ditch pitch, their broom­sticks over their shoul­ders, and with Hermione's dire warn­ings that they would fail all their OWLs still ring­ing in their ears. 'And we've got to­mor­row. She gets too worked up about work, that's her trou­ble…' There was a pause and he added, in a slight­ly more anx­ious tone, 'D'you think she meant it when she said we weren't copy­ing from her?'

'Yeah, I do,' said Har­ry. 'Still, this is im­por­tant, too, we've got to prac­tise if we want to stay on the Quid­ditch team…'

'Yeah, that's right,' said Ron, in a heart­ened tone. 'And we have got plen­ty of time to do it all…'

As they ap­proached the Quid­ditch pitch, Har­ry glanced over to his right to where the trees of the For­bid­den For­est were sway­ing dark­ly. Noth­ing flew out of them; the sky was emp­ty but for a few dis­tant owls flut­ter­ing around the Owlery tow­er. He had enough to wor­ry about; the fly­ing horse wasn't do­ing him any harm; he pushed it out of his mind.

They col­lect­ed balls from the cup­board in the chang­ing room and set to work, Ron guard­ing the three tall goal­posts, Har­ry play­ing Chas­er and try­ing to get the Quaf­fle past Ron. Har­ry thought Ron was pret­ty good; he blocked three-​quar­ters of the goals Har­ry at­tempt­ed to put past him and played bet­ter the longer they prac­tised. Af­ter a cou­ple of hours they re­turned to the cas­tle for lunch - dur­ing which Hermione made it quite clear she thought they were ir­re­spon­si­ble — then re­turned to the Quid­ditch pitch for the re­al train­ing ses­sion. All their team­mates but An­geli­na were al­ready in the chang­ing room when they en­tered.

'All right, Ron?' said George, wink­ing at him.

'Yeah,' said Ron, who had be­come qui­eter and qui­eter all the way down to the pitch.

'Ready to show us all up, Ick­le Pre­fect?' said Fred, emerg­ing tou­sle-​haired from the neck of his Quid­ditch robes, a slight­ly ma­li­cious grin on his face.

'Shut up,' said Ron, stony-​faced, pulling on his own team robes for the first time. They fit­ted him well con­sid­er­ing they had been Oliv­er Wood's, who was rather broad­er in the shoul­der.

'OK, ev­ery­one,' said An­geli­na, en­ter­ing from the Cap­tain's of­fice, al­ready changed. 'Let's get to it; Ali­cia and Fred, if you can just bring out the ball crate for us. Oh, and there are a cou­ple of peo­ple out there watch­ing but I want you to just ig­nore them, all right?'

Some­thing in her would-​be ca­su­al voice made Har­ry think he might know who the un­in­vit­ed spec­ta­tors were, and sure enough, when they left the chang­ing room for the bright sun­light of the pitch it was to a storm of cat­calls and jeers from the Slytherin Quid­ditch team and as­sort­ed hang­ers-​on, who were grouped halfway up the emp­ty stands and whose voic­es echoed loud­ly around the sta­di­um.

'What's that Weasley's rid­ing?' Mal­foy called in his sneer­ing drawl. 'Why would any­one put a fly­ing charm on a mouldy old log like that?'

Crabbe, Goyle and Pan­sy Parkin­son guf­fawed and shrieked with laugh­ter. Ron mount­ed his broom and kicked off from the ground and Har­ry fol­lowed him, watch­ing his ears turn red from be­hind.

'Ig­nore them,' he said, ac­cel­er­at­ing to catch up with Ron, 'we'll see who's laugh­ing af­ter we play them…'

'Ex­act­ly the at­ti­tude I want, Har­ry,' said An­geli­na ap­prov­ing­ly, soar­ing around them with the Quaf­fle un­der her arm and slow­ing to hov­er on the spot in front of her air­borne team. 'OK, ev­ery­one, we're go­ing to start with some pass­es just to warm up, the whole team please -'

'Hey, John­son, what's with that hairstyle, any­way?' shrieked Pan­sy Parkin­son from be­low. 'Why would any­one want to look like they've got worms com­ing out of their head?'

An­geli­na swept her long braid­ed hair out of her face and con­tin­ued calm­ly, 'Spread out, then, and let's see what we can do…'

Har­ry re­versed away from the oth­ers to the far side of the pitch. Ron fell back to­wards the op­po­site goal. An­geli­na raised the Quaf­fle with one hand and threw it hard to Fred, who passed to George, who passed to Har­ry, who passed to Ron, who dropped it.

The Slytherins, led by Mal­foy, roared and screamed with laugh­ter. Ron, who had pelt­ed to­wards the ground to catch the Quaf­fle be­fore it land­ed, pulled out of the dive un­tidi­ly, so that he slipped side­ways on his broom, and re­turned to play­ing height, blush­ing. Har­ry saw Fred and George ex­change looks, but un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly nei­ther of them said any­thing, for which he was grate­ful.

'Pass it on, Ron,' called An­geli­na, as though noth­ing had hap­pened.

Ron threw the Quaf­fle to Ali­cia, who passed back to Har­ry, who passed to George…

'Hey, Pot­ter, how's your scar feel­ing?' called Mal­foy. 'Sure you don't need a lie down? It must be, what, a whole week since you were in the hos­pi­tal wing, that's a record for you, isn't it?'

George passed to An­geli­na; she re­verse-​passed to Har­ry, who had not been ex­pect­ing it, but caught it in the very tips of his fin­gers and passed it quick­ly to Ron, who lunged for it and missed by inch­es.

'Come on now, Ron,' said An­geli­na cross­ly, as he dived for the ground again, chas­ing the Quaf­fle. 'Pay at­ten­tion.'

It would have been hard to say whether Ron's face or the Quaf­fle was a deep­er scar­let when he again re­turned to play­ing height. Mal­foy and the rest of the Slytherin team were howl­ing with laugh­ter.

On his third at­tempt, Ron caught the Quaf­fle; per­haps out of re­lief he passed it on so en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly that it soared straight through Katie's out­stretched hands and hit her hard in the face.

'Sor­ry!' Ron groaned, zoom­ing for­wards to see whether he had done any dam­age.

'Get back in po­si­tion, she's fine!' barked An­geli­na. 'But as you're pass­ing to a team­mate, do try not to knock her off her broom, won't you? We've got Bludgers for that!'

Katie's nose was bleed­ing. Down be­low, the Slytherins were stamp­ing their feet and jeer­ing. Fred and George con­verged on Katie.

'Here, take this,' Fred told her, hand­ing her some­thing small and pur­ple from out of his pock­et, 'it'll clear it up in no time.'

'All right,' called An­geli­na, 'Fred, George, go and get your bats and a Bludger. Ron, get up to the goal­posts. Har­ry, re­lease the Snitch when I say so. We're go­ing to aim for Ron's goal, ob­vi­ous­ly.'

Har­ry zoomed off af­ter the twins to fetch the Snitch.

'Ron's mak­ing a right pig's ear of things, isn't he?' mut­tered George, as the three of them land­ed at the crate con­tain­ing the balls and opened it to ex­tract one of the Bludgers and the Snitch.

'He's just ner­vous,' said Har­ry, 'he was fine when I was prac­tis­ing with him this morn­ing.'

'Yeah, well, I hope he hasn't peaked too soon,' said Fred gloomi­ly.

They re­turned to the air. When An­geli­na blew her whis­tle, Har­ry re­leased the Snitch and Fred and George let fly the Bludger. From that mo­ment on, Har­ry was bare­ly aware of what the oth­ers were do­ing. It was his job to re­cap­ture the tiny flut­ter­ing gold­en ball that was worth a hun­dred and fifty points to the Seek­er's team and do­ing so re­quired enor­mous speed and skill. He ac­cel­er­at­ed, rolling and swerv­ing in and out of the Chasers, the warm au­tumn air whip­ping his face, and the dis­tant yells of the Slytherins so much mean­ing­less roar­ing in his ears… but too soon, the whis­tle brought him to a halt again.

'Stop - stop - STOP!' screamed An­geli­na. 'Ron - you're not cov­er­ing your mid­dle post!'

Har­ry looked round at Ron, who was hov­er­ing in front of the left-​hand hoop, leav­ing the oth­er two com­plete­ly un­pro­tect­ed.

'Oh… sor­ry…'

'You keep shift­ing around while you're watch­ing the Chasers!' said An­geli­na. 'Ei­ther stay in cen­tre po­si­tion un­til you have to move to de­fend a hoop, or else cir­cle the hoops, but don't drift vague­ly off to one side, that's how you let in the last three goals!'

'Sor­ry…' Ron re­peat­ed, his red face shin­ing like a bea­con against the bright blue sky.

'And Katie, can't you do some­thing about that nose­bleed?'

'It's just get­ting worse!' said Katie thick­ly, at­tempt­ing to stem the flow with her sleeve.

Har­ry glanced round at Fred, who was look­ing anx­ious and check­ing his pock­ets. He saw Fred pull out some­thing pur­ple, ex­am­ine it for a sec­ond and then look round at Katie, ev­ident­ly hor­ror-​struck.

'Well, let's try again,' said An­geli­na. She was ig­nor­ing the Slytherins, who had now set up a chant of 'Gryffind­or are losers, Gryffind­or are losers,' but there was a cer­tain rigid­ity about her seat on the broom nev­er­the­less.

This time they had been fly­ing for bare­ly three min­utes when An­geli­nas whis­tle sound­ed. Har­ry, who had just sight­ed the Snitch cir­cling the op­po­site goal­post, pulled up feel­ing dis­tinct­ly ag­grieved.

'What now?' he said im­pa­tient­ly to Ali­cia, who was near­est.

'Katie,' she said short­ly.

Har­ry turned and saw An­geli­na, Fred and George all fly­ing as fast as they could to­wards Katie. Har­ry and Ali­cia sped to­wards her, too. It was plain that An­geli­na had stopped train­ing just in time; Katie was now chalk white and cov­ered in blood.

'She needs the hos­pi­tal wing,' said An­geli­na.

'We'll take her,' said Fred. 'She - er - might have swal­lowed a Blood Blis­ter­pod by mis­take -'

'Well, there's no point con­tin­uing with no Beat­ers and a Chas­er gone,' said An­geli­na glum­ly as Fred and George zoomed off to­wards the cas­tle sup­port­ing Katie be­tween them. 'Come on, let's go and get changed.'

The Slytherins con­tin­ued to chant as they trailed back in­to the chang­ing rooms.

'How was prac­tice?' asked Hermione rather cool­ly half an hour lat­er, as Har­ry and Ron climbed through the por­trait hole in­to the Gryffind­or com­mon room.

'It was -' Har­ry be­gan.

'Com­plete­ly lousy,' said Ron in a hol­low voice, sink­ing in­to a chair be­side Hermione. She looked up at Ron and her frosti­ness seemed to melt.

'Well, it was on­ly your first one,' she said con­sol­ing­ly, 'it's bound to take time to -'

'Who said it was me who made it lousy?' snapped Ron.

'No one,' said Hermione, look­ing tak­en aback, 'I thought -'

'You thought I was bound to be rub­bish?'

'No, of course I didn't! Look, you said it was lousy so I just -'

'I'm go­ing to get start­ed on some home­work,' said Ron an­gri­ly and stomped off to the stair­case to the boys' dor­mi­to­ries and van­ished from sight. Hermione turned to Har­ry.

'Was he lousy?'

'No,' said Har­ry loy­al­ly.

Hermione raised her eye­brows.

'Well, I sup­pose he could've played bet­ter,' Har­ry mut­tered, 'but it was on­ly the first train­ing ses­sion, like you said…'

Nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron seemed to make much head­way with their home­work that night. Har­ry knew Ron was too pre­oc­cu­pied with how bad­ly he had per­formed at Quid­ditch prac­tice and he him­self was hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty in get­ting the 'Gryffind­or are losers' chant out of his head.

They spent the whole of Sun­day in the com­mon room, buried in their books while the room around them filled up, then emp­tied. It was an­oth­er clear, fine day and most of their fel­low Gryffind­ors spent the day out in the grounds, en­joy­ing what might well be some of the last sun­shine that year. By the evening, Har­ry felt as though some­body had been beat­ing his brain against the in­side of his skull.

'You know, we prob­ably should try and get more home­work done dur­ing the week,' Har­ry mut­tered to Ron, as they fi­nal­ly laid aside Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's long es­say on the Inan­ima­tus Con­ju­rus Spell and turned mis­er­ably to Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra's equal­ly long and dif­fi­cult es­say about Jupiter's many moons.

'Yeah,' said Ron, rub­bing slight­ly blood­shot eyes and throw­ing his fifth spoiled bit of parch­ment in­to the fire be­side them. 'Lis­ten… shall we just ask Hermione if we can have a look at what she's done?'

Har­ry glanced over at her; she was sit­ting with Crook­shanks on her lap and chat­ting mer­ri­ly to Gin­ny as a pair of knit­ting nee­dles flashed in midair in front of her, now knit­ting a pair of shape­less elf socks.

'No,' he said heav­ily, 'you know she won't let us.'

And so they worked on while the sky out­side the win­dows be­came steadi­ly dark­er. Slow­ly, the crowd in the com­mon room be­gan to thin again. At half past eleven, Hermione wan­dered over to them, yawn­ing.

'Near­ly done?'

'No,' said Ron short­ly.

'Jupiter's biggest moon is Ganymede, not Cal­lis­to,' she said, point­ing over Ron's shoul­der at a line in his As­tron­omy es­say, 'and it's lo that's got the vol­ca­noes.'

Thanks,' snarled Ron, scratch­ing out the of­fend­ing sen­tences.

'Sor­ry, I on­ly -'

'Yeah, well, if you've just come over here to crit­icise -'

'Ron -'

'I haven't got time to lis­ten to a ser­mon, all right, Hermione, I'm up to my neck in it here -'

'No - look!'

Hermione was point­ing to the near­est win­dow. Har­ry and Ron both looked over. A hand­some screech owl was stand­ing on the win­dowsill, gaz­ing in­to the room at Ron.

'Isn't that Her­mes?' said Hermione, sound­ing amazed.

'Blimey, it is!' said Ron qui­et­ly, throw­ing down his quill and get­ting to his feet. 'What's Per­cy writ­ing to me for?'

He crossed to the win­dow and opened it; Her­mes flew in­side, land­ed on Ron's es­say and held out a leg to which a let­ter was at­tached. Ron took the let­ter off it and the owl de­part­ed at once, leav­ing inky foot­prints across Ron's draw­ing of the moon lo.

That's def­inite­ly Per­cy's hand­writ­ing,' said Ron, sink­ing back in­to his chair and star­ing at the words on the out­side of the scroll: Ronald Weasley, Gryffind­or House, Hog­warts. He looked up at the oth­er two. 'What d'you reck­on?'

'Open it!' said Hermione ea­ger­ly, and Har­ry nod­ded.

Ron un­rolled the scroll and be­gan to read. The fur­ther down the parch­ment his eyes trav­elled, the more pro­nounced be­came his scowl. When he had fin­ished read­ing, he looked dis­gust­ed. He thrust the let­ter at Har­ry and Hermione, who leaned to­wards each oth­er to read it to­geth­er:

Dear Ron,

I have on­ly just heard (from no less a per­son than the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic him­self, who has it from your new teach­er, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge) that you have be­come a Hog­warts pre­fect.

was most pleas­ant­ly sur­prised when I heard this news and must first­ly of­fer my con­grat­ula­tions. I must ad­mit that I have al­ways been afraid that you would take what we might call the 'Fred and George' route, rather than fol­low­ing in my foot­steps, so you can imag­ine my feel­ings on hear­ing you have stopped flout­ing au­thor­ity and have de­cid­ed to shoul­der some re­al re­spon­si­bil­ity.

But I want to give you more than con­grat­ula­tions, Ron, I want to give you some ad­vice, which is why I am send­ing this at night rather than by the usu­al morn­ing post. Hope­ful­ly, you will be able to read this away from pry­ing eyes and avoid awk­ward ques­tions.

From some­thing the Min­is­ter let slip when telling me you are now a pre­fect, I gath­er that you are still see­ing a lot of Har­ry Pot­ter. I must tell you, Ron, that noth­ing could put you in dan­ger of los­ing your badge more than con­tin­ued frater­ni­sa­tion with that boy. Yes, I am sure you are sur­prised to hear this - no doubt you will say that Pot­ter has al­ways been Dum­ble­dore's favourite — but I feel bound to tell you that Dum­ble­dore may not be in charge at Hog­warts much longer and the peo­ple who count have a very dif­fer­ent - and prob­ably more ac­cu­rate - view of Pot­ter's be­haviour. I shall say no more here, but if you look at the Dai­ly Prophet

to­mor­row you will get a good idea of the way the wind is blow­ing — and see if you can spot yours tru­ly!

Se­ri­ous­ly, Ron, you do not want to be tarred with the same brush as Pot­ter, it could be very dam­ag­ing to your fu­ture prospects, and I am talk­ing here about life af­ter school, too. As you must be aware, giv­en that our fa­ther es­cort­ed him to court, Pot­ter had a dis­ci­plinary hear­ing this sum­mer in front of the whole Wiz­eng­amot and he did not come out of it look­ing too good. He got off on a mere tech­ni­cal­ity, if you ask me, and many of the peo­ple I've spo­ken to re­main con­vinced of his guilt.

It may be that you are afraid to sev­er ties with Pot­ter - / know that he can be un­bal­anced and, for all I know, vi­olent - but if you have any wor­ries about this, or have spot­ted any­thing else in Pot­ter's be­haviour that is trou­bling you, I urge you to speak to Do­lores Um­bridge, a tru­ly de­light­ful wom­an who I know will be on­ly too hap­py to ad­vise you.

This leads me to my oth­er bit of ad­vice. As I have hint­ed above, Dum­ble­dore's regime at Hog­warts may soon be over. Your loy­al­ty, Ron, should be not to him, but to the school and the Min­istry. I am very sor­ry to hear that, so far, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge is en­coun­ter­ing very lit­tle co-​op­er­ation from staff as she strives to make those nec­es­sary changes with­in Hog­warts that the Min­istry so ar­dent­ly de­sires (al­though she should find this eas­ier from next week — again, see the Dai­ly Prophet to­mor­row!). I shall say on­ly this - a stu­dent who shows him­self will­ing to help Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge now may be very well-​placed for Head Boy­ship in a cou­ple of years!

I am sor­ry that I was un­able to see more of you over the sum­mer. It pains me to crit­icise our par­ents, but I am afraid i can no longer live un­der their roof while they re­main mixed up with the dan­ger­ous crowd around Dum­ble­dore. (If you are writ­ing to Moth­er at any point, you might tell her that a cer­tain Stur­gis Pod­more, who is a great friend of Dum­ble­dore's, has re­cent­ly been sent to Azk­aban­for tres­pass at the Min­istry. Per­haps that will open their eyes to the kind of pet­ty crim­inals with whom they are cur­rent­ly rub­bing shoul­ders.) I count my­self very lucky to have es­caped the stig­ma of as­so­ci­ation with such peo­ple - the Min­is­ter re­al­ly could not be more gra­cious to me — and I do hope, Ron, that you will

not al­low fam­ily ties to blind you to the mis­guid­ed na­ture of our par­ents' be­liefs and ac­tions, ei­ther. I sin­cere­ly hope that, in time, they will re­alise how mis­tak­en they were and I shall, of course, be ready to ac­cept a full apol­ogy when that day comes.

Please think over what I have said most care­ful­ly, par­tic­ular­ly the bit about Har­ry Pot­ter, and con­grat­ula­tions again on be­com­ing pre­fect.

Your broth­er,

Per­cy

Har­ry looked up at Ron.

'Well,' he said, try­ing to sound as though he found the whole thing a joke, 'if you want to - er - what is it?' - he checked Per­cy's let­ter - 'Oh yeah - “sev­er ties” with me, I swear I won't get vi­olent.'

'Give it back,' said Ron, hold­ing out his hand. 'He is -' Ron said jerk­ily, tear­ing Per­cy's let­ter in half 'the world's -' he tore it in­to quar­ters 'biggest -' he tore it in­to eighths 'git.' He threw the pieces in­to the fire.

'Come on, we've got to get this fin­ished some­time be­fore dawn,' he said briskly to Har­ry, pulling Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra's es­say back to­wards him.

Hermione was look­ing at Ron with an odd ex­pres­sion on her face.

'Oh, give them here,' she said abrupt­ly.

'What?' said Ron.

'Give them to me, I'll look through them and cor­rect them,' she said.

'Are you se­ri­ous? Ah, Hermione, you're a life-​saver,' said Ron, 'what can I -?'

'What you can say is, “We promise we'll nev­er leave our home­work this late again,”' she said, hold­ing out both hands for their es­says, but she looked slight­ly amused all the same.

Thanks a mil­lion, Hermione,' said Har­ry weak­ly, pass­ing over his es­say and sink­ing back in­to his arm­chair, rub­bing his eyes.

It was now past mid­night and the com­mon room was de­sert­ed but for the three of them and Crook­shanks. The on­ly sound was that of Hermione's quill scratch­ing out sen­tences here and there on their es­says and the ruf­fle of pages as she checked var­ious facts in the ref­er­ence books strewn across the ta­ble. Har­ry was ex­haust­ed. He al­so felt an odd, sick, emp­ty feel­ing in his stom­ach that had noth­ing to do with tired­ness and ev­ery­thing to do with the let­ter now curl­ing black­ly in the heart of the fire.

He knew that half the peo­ple in­side Hog­warts thought him strange, even mad; he knew that the Dai­ly Prophet had been mak­ing snide al­lu­sions to him for months, but there was some­thing about see­ing it writ­ten down like that in Per­cys writ­ing, about know­ing that Per­cy was ad­vis­ing Ron to drop him and even to tell tales about him to Um­bridge, that made his sit­ua­tion re­al to him as noth­ing else had. He had known Per­cy for four years, had stayed in his house dur­ing the sum­mer hol­idays, shared a tent with him dur­ing the Quid­ditch World Cup, had even been award­ed full marks by him in the sec­ond task of the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment last year, yet now, Per­cy thought him un­bal­anced and pos­si­bly vi­olent.

And with a surge of sym­pa­thy for his god­fa­ther, Har­ry thought Sir­ius was prob­ably the on­ly per­son he knew who could re­al­ly un­der­stand how he felt at the mo­ment, be­cause Sir­ius was in the same sit­ua­tion. Near­ly ev­ery­one in the wiz­ard­ing world thought Sir­ius a dan­ger­ous mur­der­er and a great Volde­mort sup­port­er and he had had to live with that knowl­edge for four­teen years…

Har­ry blinked. He had just seen some­thing in the fire that could not have been there. It had flashed in­to sight and van­ished im­me­di­ate­ly. No… it could not have been… he had imag­ined it be­cause he had been think­ing about Sir­ius…

'OK, write that down,' Hermione said to Ron, push­ing his es­say and a sheet cov­ered in her own writ­ing back to Ron, 'then add this con­clu­sion I've writ­ten for you.'

'Hermione, you are hon­est­ly the most won­der­ful per­son I've ev­er met,' said Ron weak­ly, 'and if I'm ev­er rude to you again -'

'- I'll know you're back to nor­mal,' said Hermione. 'Har­ry, yours is OK ex­cept for this bit at the end, I think you must have mis­heard Pro­fes­sor Sin­is­tra, Eu­ropa's cov­ered in ice, not mice -Har­ry?'

Har­ry had slid off his chair on to his knees and was now crouch­ing on the singed and thread­bare hearthrug, gaz­ing in­to the flames.

'Er - Har­ry?' said Ron un­cer­tain­ly. 'Why are you down there?'

'Be­cause I've just seen Sir­ius's head in the fire,' said Har­ry.

He spoke quite calm­ly; af­ter all, he had seen Sir­ius's head in this very fire the pre­vi­ous year and talked to it, too; nev­er­the­less, he could not be sure that he had re­al­ly seen it this time… it had van­ished so quick­ly…

'Sir­ius's head?' Hermione re­peat­ed. 'You mean like when he want­ed to talk to you dur­ing the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment? But he wouldn't do that now, it would be too - Sir­ius!'

She gasped, gaz­ing at the fire; Ron dropped his quill. There in the mid­dle of the danc­ing flames sat Sir­ius's head, long dark hair falling around his grin­ning face.

'1 was start­ing to think you'd go to bed be­fore ev­ery­one else had dis­ap­peared,' he said. 'I've been check­ing ev­ery hour.'

'You've been pop­ping in­to the fire ev­ery hour?' Har­ry said, half-​laugh­ing.

'Just for a few sec­onds to check if the coast was clear.'

'But what if you'd been seen?' said Hermione anx­ious­ly.

'Well, I think a girl - first-​year, by the look of her - might've got a glimpse of me ear­li­er, but don't wor­ry' Sir­ius said hasti­ly, as Hermione clapped a hand to her mouth, 'I was gone the mo­ment she looked back at me and I'll bet she just thought I was an odd­ly-​shaped log or some­thing.'

'But, Sir­ius, this is tak­ing an aw­ful risk -' Hermione be­gan.

'You sound like Mol­ly,' said Sir­ius. This was the on­ly way I could come up with of an­swer­ing Har­rys let­ter with­out re­sort­ing to a code - and codes are break­able.'

At the men­tion of Har­ry's let­ter, Hermione and Ron both turned to stare at him.

'You didn't say you'd writ­ten to Sir­ius!' said Hermione ac­cus­ing­ly.

'I for­got,' said Har­ry, which was per­fect­ly true; his meet­ing with Cho in the Owlery had driv­en ev­ery­thing be­fore it out of his mind. 'Don't look at me like that, Hermione, there was no way any­one would have got se­cret in­for­ma­tion out of it, was there, Sir­ius?'

'No, it was very good,' said Sir­ius, smil­ing. 'Any­way, we'd bet­ter be quick, just in case we're dis­turbed - your scar.'

'What about -?' Ron be­gan, but Hermione in­ter­rupt­ed him. . 'We'll tell you af­ter­wards. Go on, Sir­ius.'

'Well, I know it can't be fun when it hurts, but we don't think it's any­thing to re­al­ly wor­ry about. It kept aching all last year, didn't it?'

'Yeah, and Dum­ble­dore said it hap­pened when­ev­er Volde­mort was feel­ing a pow­er­ful emo­tion,' said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing, as usu­al, Ron and Hermione's winces. 'So maybe he was just, I dun­no, re­al­ly an­gry or some­thing the night I had that de­ten­tion.'

'Well, now he's back it's bound to hurt more of­ten,' said Sir­ius.

'So you don't think it had any­thing to do with Um­bridge touch­ing me when I was in de­ten­tion with her?' Har­ry asked.

'I doubt it,' said Sir­ius. 'I know her by rep­uta­tion and I'm sure she's no Death Eater -'

'She's foul enough to be one,' said Har­ry dark­ly, and Ron and Hermione nod­ded vig­or­ous­ly in agree­ment.

'Yes, but the world isn't split in­to good peo­ple and Death Eaters,' said Sir­ius with a wry smile. 'I know she's a nasty piece of work, though — you should hear Re­mus talk about her.'

'Does Lupin know her?' asked Har­ry quick­ly, re­mem­ber­ing Um­bridge's com­ments about dan­ger­ous half-​breeds dur­ing her first les­son.

'No,' said Sir­ius, 'but she draft­ed a bit of an­ti-​were­wolf leg­is­la­tion two years ago that makes it al­most im­pos­si­ble for him to get a job.'

Har­ry re­mem­bered how much shab­bier Lupin looked these days and his dis­like of Um­bridge deep­ened even fur­ther.

'What's she got against were­wolves?" said Hermione an­gri­ly.

'Scared of them, I ex­pect,' said Sir­ius, smil­ing at her in­dig­na­tion. 'Ap­par­ent­ly she loathes part-​hu­mans; she cam­paigned to have mer­peo­ple round­ed up and tagged last year, too. Imag­ine wast­ing your time and en­er­gy per­se­cut­ing mer­peo­ple when there are lit­tle to­er­ags like Kreach­er on the loose.'

Ron laughed but Hermione looked up­set.

'Sir­ius!' she said re­proach­ful­ly. 'Hon­est­ly, if you made a bit of an ef­fort with Kreach­er, I'm sure he'd re­spond. Af­ter all, you are the on­ly mem­ber of his fam­ily he's got left, and Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore said -'

'So, what are Um­bridge's lessons like?' Sir­ius in­ter­rupt­ed. 'Is she train­ing you all to kill half-​breeds?'

'No,' said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing Hermione's af­front­ed look at be­ing cut off in her de­fence of Kreach­er. 'She's not let­ting us use mag­ic at all!'

'All we do is read the stupid text­book,' said Ron.

'Ah, well, that fig­ures,' said Sir­ius. 'Our in­for­ma­tion Irom in­side the Min­istry is that Fudge doesn't want you trained in com­bat.'

'Trained in com­bat!' re­peat­ed Har­ry in­cred­ulous­ly. 'What does he think we're do­ing here, form­ing some sort of wiz­ard army?'

That's ex­act­ly what he thinks you're do­ing,' said Sir­ius, 'or, rather, that's ex­act­ly what he's afraid Dum­ble­dore's do­ing - form­ing his own pri­vate army, with which he will be able to take on the Min­istry of Mag­ic.'

There was a pause at this, then Ron said, That's the most stupid thing I've ev­er heard, in­clud­ing all the stuff that Lu­na Love­good comes out with.'

'So we're be­ing pre­vent­ed from learn­ing De­fence Against the Dark Arts be­cause Fudge is scared we'll use spells against the Min­istry?' said Hermione, look­ing fu­ri­ous.

'Yep,' said Sir­ius. 'Fudge thinks Dum­ble­dore will stop at noth­ing to seize pow­er. He's get­ting more para­noid about Dum­ble­dore by the day. It's a mat­ter of time be­fore he has Dum­ble­dore ar­rest­ed on some trumped-​up charge.'

This re­mind­ed Har­ry of Per­cy's let­ter.

'D'you know if there's go­ing to be any­thing about Dum­ble­dore in the Dai­ly Prophet to­mor­row? Ron's broth­er Per­cy reck­ons there will be -'

'I don't know,' said Sir­ius, 'I haven't seen any­one from the Or­der all week­end, they're all busy. It's just been Kreach­er and me here

There was a def­inite note of bit­ter­ness in Sir­ius's voice.

'So you haven't had any news about Ha­grid, ei­ther?'

'Ah…' said Sir­ius, 'well, he was sup­posed to be back by now, no one's sure what's hap­pened to him.' Then, see­ing their strick­en faces, he added quick­ly, 'But Dum­ble­dore's not wor­ried, so don't you three get your­selves in a state; I'm sure Ha­grid's fine.'

'But if he was sup­posed to be back by now…' said Hermione in a small, anx­ious voice.

'Madame Maxime was with him, we've been in touch with her and she says they got sep­arat­ed on the jour­ney home - but there's noth­ing to sug­gest he's hurt or - well, noth­ing to sug­gest he's not per­fect­ly OK.'

Un­con­vinced, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione ex­changed wor­ried looks.

'Lis­ten, don't go ask­ing too many ques­tions about Ha­grid,' said Sir­ius hasti­ly, 'it'll just draw even more at­ten­tion to the fact that he's not back and I know Dum­ble­dore doesn't want that. Ha­grid's tough, he'll be OK.' And when they did not ap­pear cheered by this, Sir­ius added, 'When's your next Hogsmeade week­end, any­way? I was think­ing, we got away with the dog dis­guise at the sta­tion, didn't we? I thought I could —'

'NO!' said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er, very loud­ly.

'Sir­ius, didn't you see the Dai­ly Prophet?' said Hermione anx­ious­ly.

'Oh, that,' said Sir­ius, grin­ning, 'they're al­ways guess­ing where I am, they haven't re­al­ly got a clue -'

'Yeah, but we think this time they have,' said Har­ry. 'Some­thing Mal­foy said on the train made us think he knew it was you, and his fa­ther was on the plat­form, Sir­ius - you know, Lu­cius Mal­foy - so don't come up here, what­ev­er you do. If Mal­foy recog­nis­es you again -'

'All right, all right, I've got the point,' said Sir­ius. He looked most dis­pleased. 'Just an idea, thought you might like to get to­geth­er.'

'I would, I just don't want you chucked back in Azk­aban!' said Har­ry.

There was a pause in which Sir­ius looked out of the fire at Har­ry, a crease be­tween his sunken eyes.

'You're less like your fa­ther than I thought,' he said fi­nal­ly, a def­inite cool­ness in his voice. The risk would've been what made it fun for James.'

'Look -'

'Well, I'd bet­ter get go­ing, I can hear Kreach­er com­ing down the stairs,' said Sir­ius, but Har­ry was sure he was ly­ing. Til write to tell you a time I can make it back in­to the fire, then, shall I? If you can stand to risk it?'

There was a tiny pop, and the place where Sir­ius's head had been was flick­er­ing flame once more.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 15 - The Hogwarts High Inquisitor


They had ex­pect­ed to have to comb Hermione's Dai­ly Prophet care­ful­ly next morn­ing to find the ar­ti­cle Per­cy had men­tioned in his let­ter. How­ev­er, the de­part­ing de­liv­ery owl had bare­ly cleared the top of the milk jug when Hermione let out a huge gasp and flat­tened the news­pa­per to re­veal a large pho­to­graph of Do­lores Um­bridge, smil­ing wide­ly and blink­ing slow­ly at them from be­neath the head­line.

MIN­ISTRY SEEKS ED­UCA­TION­AL RE­FORM

DO­LORES UM­BR1DGE AP­POINT­ED

FIRST EV­ER HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR

'Um­bridge - “High In­quisi­tor”?' said Har­ry dark­ly, his half-​eat­en piece of toast slip­ping from his fin­gers. 'What does that mean?' Hermione read aloud:

'In a sur­prise move last night the Min­istry of Mag­ic passed new leg­is­la­tion giv­ing it­self an un­prece­dent­ed lev­el of con­trol at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry.

'“The Min­is­ter has been grow­ing un­easy about go­ings-​on at Hog­warts for some time,” said ju­nior As­sis­tant to the Min­is­ter, Per­cy Weasley. “He is now re­spond­ing to con­cerns voiced by anx­ious par­ents, who feel the school may be mov­ing in a di­rec­tion they do not ap­prove of.”

'This is not the first time in re­cent weeks that the Min­is­ter, Cor­nelius Fudge, has used new laws to ef­fect im­prove­ments at the

wiz­ard­ing school. As re­cent­ly as 30ih Au­gust, Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​two was passed, to en­sure that, in the event of the cur­rent Head­mas­ter be­ing un­able to pro­vide a can­di­date for a teach­ing post, the Min­istry should se­lect an ap­pro­pri­ate per­son. '“That's how Do­lores Um­bridge came to be ap­point­ed to the teach­ing staff at Hog­warts,” said Weasley last night. “Dum­ble­dore couldn't find any­one so the Min­is­ter put in Um­bridge, and of course, she's been an im­me­di­ate suc­cess —”'

'She's been a WHAT?' said Har­ry loud­ly. 'Wait, there's more,' said Hermione grim­ly.

'“— an im­me­di­ate suc­cess, to­tal­ly rev­olu­tion­is­ing the teach­ing of De­fence Against the Dark Arts and pro­vid­ing the Min­is­ter with on-​the-​ground feed­back about what's re­al­ly hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts.”

'It is this last func­tion that the Min­istry has now for­malised with the pass­ing of Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​three, which cre­ates the new po­si­tion of Hog­warts High In­quisi­tor.

'“This is an ex­cit­ing new phase in the Min­is­ter's plan to get to grips with what some are call­ing the falling stan­dards at Hog­warts,” said Weasley. “The In­quisi­tor will have pow­ers to in­spect her fel­low ed­uca­tors and make sure that they are com­ing up to scratch. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge has been of­fered this po­si­tion in ad­di­tion to her own teach­ing post and we are de­light­ed to say that she has ac­cept­ed.”

'The Min­istry's new moves have re­ceived en­thu­si­as­tic sup­port from par­ents of stu­dents at Hog­warts.

“T feel much eas­ier in my mind now that I know Dum­ble­dore is be­ing sub­ject­ed to fair and ob­jec­tive eval­ua­tion,” said Mr Lu­cius Mal­foy, 41, speak­ing from his Wilt­shire man­sion last night. “Many of us with our chil­dren's best in­ter­ests at heart have been con­cerned about some of Dum­ble­dore's ec­cen­tric de­ci­sions in the last few years and are glad to know that the Min­istry is keep­ing an eye on the sit­ua­tion.”

'Among those ec­cen­tric de­ci­sions are un­doubt­ed­ly the con­tro­ver­sial staff ap­point­ments pre­vi­ous­ly de­scribed in this news­pa­per, which have in­clud­ed the em­ploy­ment of were­wolf Re­mus Lupin, half-​gi­ant Rubeus Ha­grid and delu­sion­al ex-​Au­ror, “Mad-​Eye” Moody.

'Ru­mours abound, of course, that Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, once Supreme Mug­wump of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards and Chief War­lock of the Wiz­eng­amot, is no longer up to the task of man­ag­ing the pres­ti­gious school of Hog­warts.

'“I think the ap­point­ment of the In­quisi­tor is a first step to­wards en­sur­ing that Hog­warts has a head­mas­ter in whom we can all re­pose our con­fi­dence,” said a Min­istry in­sid­er last night.

'Wiz­eng­amot el­ders Grisel­da March­banks and Tiberius Og­den have re­signed in protest at the in­tro­duc­tion of the post of In­quisi­tor to Hog­warts.

'“Hog­warts is a school, not an out­post of Cor­nelius Fudge's of­fice,” said Madam March­banks. “This is a fur­ther, dis­gust­ing at­tempt to dis­cred­it Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.”

'(For a full ac­count of Madam March­banks's al­leged links to . sub­ver­sive gob­lin groups, turn to page sev­en­teen.)'

Hermione fin­ished read­ing and looked across the ta­ble at the oth­er two.

'So now we know how we end­ed up with Um­bridge! Fudge passed this “Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree” and forced her on us! And now he's giv­en her the pow­er to in­spect the oth­er teach­ers!' Hermione was breath­ing fast and her eyes were very bright. 'I can't be­lieve this. It's out­ra­geous]'

'I know it is,' said Har­ry. He looked down at his right hand, clenched on the ta­ble-​top, and saw the faint white out­line of the words Um­bridge had forced him to cut in­to his skin.

But a grin was un­furl­ing on Ron's face.

'What?' said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er, star­ing at him.

'Oh, I can't wait to see McG­ona­gall in­spect­ed,' said Ron hap­pi­ly. 'Um­bridge won't know what's hit her.'

'Well, come on,' said Hermione, jump­ing up, 'we'd bet­ter get go­ing, if she's in­spect­ing Binns's class we don't want to be late…'

But Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was not in­spect­ing their His­to­ry of Mag­ic les­son, which was just as dull as the pre­vi­ous Mon­day, nor was she in Snape's dun­geon when they ar­rived for dou­ble Po­tions, where Har­ry's moon­stone es­say was hand­ed back to him with a large, spiky black 'D' scrawled in an up­per cor­ner.

THE Hoc WARTS HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR

'I have award­ed you the grades you would have re­ceived if you pre­sent­ed this work in your OWL,' said Snape with a smirk, as he swept among them, pass­ing back their home­work. This should give you a re­al­is­tic idea of what to ex­pect in the ex­am­ina­tion.'

Snape reached the front of the class and turned on his heel to face them.

The gen­er­al stan­dard of this home­work was abysmal. Most of you would have failed had this been your ex­am­ina­tion. I ex­pect to see a great deal more ef­fort for this weeks es­say on the var­ious va­ri­eties of ven­om an­ti­dotes, or I shall have to start hand­ing out de­ten­tions to those dunces who get a "D'V

He smirked as Mal­foy snig­gered and said in a car­ry­ing whis­per, 'Some peo­ple got a “D”? Ha!'

Har­ry re­alised that Hermione was look­ing side­ways to see what grade he had re­ceived; he slid his moon­stone es­say back in­to his bag as quick­ly as pos­si­ble, feel­ing that he would rather keep that in­for­ma­tion pri­vate.

De­ter­mined not to give Snape an ex­cuse to fail him this les­son, Har­ry read and reread ev­ery line of in­struc­tions on the black­board at least three times be­fore act­ing on them. His Strength­en­ing So­lu­tion was not pre­cise­ly the clear turquoise shade of Hermione's but it was at least blue rather than pink, like Neville's, and he de­liv­ered a flask of it to Snape's desk at the end of the les­son with a feel­ing of min­gled de­fi­ance and re­lief.

'Well, that wasn't as bad as last week, was it?' said Hermione, as they climbed the steps out of the dun­geon and made their way across the En­trance Hall to­wards lunch. 'And the home­work didn't go too bad­ly, ei­ther, did it?'

When nei­ther Ron nor Har­ry an­swered, she pressed on, 'I mean, all right, I didn't ex­pect the top grade, not if he's mark­ing to OWL stan­dard, but a pass is quite en­cour­ag­ing at this stage, wouldn't you say?'

Har­ry made a non-​com­mit­tal noise in his throat.

'Of course, a lot can hap­pen be­tween now and the ex­am, we've got plen­ty of time to im­prove, but the grades we're get­ting now are a sort of base­line, aren't they? Some­thing we can build on…"

They sat down to­geth­er at the Gryffm­dor ta­ble.

'Ob­vi­ous­ly, I'd have been thrilled if I'd got an “O” -'

'Hermione,' said Ron sharply 'if you want to know what grades we got, ask.' : -'

'I don't - I didn't mean - well, if you want to tell me -' ••-

'I got a “P”,' said Ron, ladling soup in­to his bowl. 'Hap­py?'

'Well, that's noth­ing to be ashamed of,' said Fred, who had just ar­rived at the ta­ble with George and Lee Jor­dan and was sit­ting down on Har­ry's right. 'Noth­ing wrong with a good healthy “P”.'

'But,' said Hermione, 'doesn't “P” stand for…"

'“Poor”, yeah,' said Lee Jor­dan. 'Still, bet­ter than “D”, isn't it? “Dread­ful”?'

Har­ry felt his face grow warm and faked a small cough­ing fit over his roll. When he emerged from this he was sor­ry to find that Hermione was still in full flow about OWL grades.

'So top grade's “O” for “Out­stand­ing”,' she was say­ing, 'and then there's “A” -'

'No, “E”,' George cor­rect­ed her, '“E” for “Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions”. And I've al­ways thought Fred and I should've got “E” in ev­ery­thing, be­cause we ex­ceed­ed ex­pec­ta­tions just by turn­ing up for the ex­ams.'

They all laughed ex­cept Hermione, who ploughed on, 'So, af­ter “E” it's “A” for “Ac­cept­able”, and that's the last pass grade, isn't it?'

'Yep,' said Fred, dunk­ing an en­tire roll in his soup, trans­fer­ring it to his mouth and swal­low­ing it whole.

Then you get “P” for “Poor”-' Ron raised both his arms in mock cel­ebra­tion - 'and “D” for “Dread­ful”.'

'And then “T”,' George re­mind­ed him.

'T“?' asked Hermione, look­ing ap­palled. 'Even low­er than a ”D“? What on earth does ”T" stand for?'

'Troll",' said George prompt­ly.

Har­ry laughed again, though he was not sure whether or not George was jok­ing. He imag­ined try­ing to con­ceal from Hermione that he had re­ceived T's in all his OWLs and im­me­di­ate­ly re­solved to work hard­er from now on.

'You lot had an in­spect­ed les­son yet?' Fred asked them.

'No,' said Hermione at once. 'Have you?'

'Just now, be­fore lunch,' said George. 'Charms.'

THE Hoc WARTS HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR

'What was it like?' Har­ry and Hermione asked to­geth­er.

Fred shrugged.

'Not that bad. Um­bridge just lurked in the cor­ner mak­ing notes on a clip­board. You know what Flitwick's like, he treat­ed her like a guest, didn't seem to both­er him at all. She didn't say much. Asked Ali­cia a cou­ple of ques­tions about what the class­es are nor­mal­ly like, Ali­cia told her they were re­al­ly good, that was it.'

'I can't see old Flitwick get­ting marked down,' said George, 'he usu­al­ly gets ev­ery­one through their ex­ams all right.'

'Who've you got this af­ter­noon?' Fred asked Har­ry.

Trelawney -'

'A “T” if ev­er I saw one.'

'- and Um­bridge her­self.'

'Well, be a good boy and keep your tem­per with Um­bridge to­day' said George. 'An­geli­na'll do her nut if you miss any more Quid­ditch prac­tices.'

But Har­ry did not have to wait for De­fence Against the Dark Arts to meet Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. He was pulling out his dream di­ary in a seat at the very back of the shad­owy Div­ina­tion room when Ron el­bowed him in the ribs and, look­ing round, he saw Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge emerg­ing through the trap­door in the floor. The class, which had been talk­ing cheer­ily fell silent at once. The abrupt fall in the noise lev­el made Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who had been waft­ing about hand­ing out copies of The Dream Or­acle, look round.

'Good af­ter­noon, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge with her wide smile. 'You re­ceived my note, I trust? Giv­ing the time and date of your in­spec­tion?'

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney nod­ded curt­ly and, look­ing very dis­grun­tled, turned her back on Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge and con­tin­ued to give out books. Still smil­ing, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge grasped the back of the near­est arm­chair and pulled it to the front of the class so that it was a few inch­es be­hind Pro­fes­sor Trelawneys seat. She then sat down, took her clip­board from her flow­ery bag and looked up ex­pec­tant­ly, wait­ing for the class to be­gin.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney pulled her shawls tight about her with slight­ly trem­bling hands and sur­veyed the class through her huge­ly mag­ni­fy­ing lens­es.

'We shall be con­tin­uing our study of prophet­ic dreams to­day,' she said in a brave at­tempt at her usu­al mys­tic tones, though her voice shook slight­ly. 'Di­vide in­to pairs, please, and in­ter­pret each oth­er's lat­est night-​time vi­sions with the aid of the Or­acle.'

She made as though to sweep back to her seat, saw Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sit­ting right be­side it, and im­me­di­ate­ly veered left to­wards Par­vati and Laven­der, who were al­ready deep in dis­cus­sion about Par­vati's most re­cent dream.

Har­ry opened his copy of The Dream Or­acle, watch­ing Um­bridge covert­ly. She was al­ready mak­ing notes on her clip­board. Af­ter a few min­utes she got to her ieet and be­gan to pace the room in Trelawney's wake, lis­ten­ing to her con­ver­sa­tions with stu­dents and pos­ing ques­tions here and there. Har­ry bent his head hur­ried­ly over his book.

Think of a dream, quick,' he told Ron, 'in case the old toad comes our way.'

'I did it last time,' Ron protest­ed, 'it's your turn, you tell me one.'

'Oh, I dun­no…' said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, who could not re­mem­ber dream­ing any­thing at all over the last few days. 'Lets say I dreamed I was… drown­ing Snape in my caul­dron. Yeah, that'll do…'

Ron chor­tled as he opened his Dream Or­acle.

'OK, we've got to add your age to the date you had the dream, the num­ber of let­ters in the sub­ject… would that be “drown­ing” or “caul­dron” or “Snape”?'

'It doesn't mat­ter, pick any of them,' said Har­ry, chanc­ing a glance be­hind him. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was now stand­ing at Pro­fes­sor Trelawneys shoul­der mak­ing notes while the Div­ina­tion teach­er ques­tioned Neville about his dream di­ary.

'What night did you dream this again?' Ron said, im­mersed in cal­cu­la­tions.

'I dun­no, last night, when­ev­er you like,' Har­ry told him, try­ing to lis­ten to what Um­bridge was say­ing to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney. They were on­ly a ta­ble away from him and Ron now. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was mak­ing an­oth­er note on her clip­board and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was look­ing ex­treme­ly put out.

'Now,' said Um­bridge, look­ing up at Trelawney, 'you've been in this post how long, ex­act­ly?'

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney scowled at her, arms crossed and shoul­ders hunched as though wish­ing to pro­tect her­self as much as pos­si­ble from the in­dig­ni­ty of the in­spec­tion. Af­ter a slight pause in which she seemed to de­cide that the ques­tion was not so of­fen­sive that she could rea­son­ably ig­nore it, she said in a deeply re­sent­ful tone, 'Near­ly six­teen years.'

'Quite a pe­ri­od,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, mak­ing a note on her clip­board. 'So it was Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore who ap­point­ed you?'

That's right,' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney short­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge made an­oth­er note.

'And you are a great-​great-​grand­daugh­ter of the cel­ebrat­ed Seer Cas­san­dra Trelawney?'

'Yes,' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, hold­ing her head a lit­tle high­er.

An­oth­er note on the clip­board.

'But I think - cor­rect me if I am mis­tak­en - that you are the first in your fam­ily since Cas­san­dra to be pos­sessed of Sec­ond Sight?'

'These things of­ten skip - er - three gen­er­ations,' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's toad­like smile widened.

'Of course,' she said sweet­ly, mak­ing yet an­oth­er note. 'Well, if you could just pre­dict some­thing for me, then?' And she looked up en­quir­ing­ly, still smil­ing.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stiff­ened as though un­able to be­lieve her ears. 'I don't un­der­stand you,' she said, clutch­ing con­vul­sive­ly at the shawl around her scrawny neck.

'I'd like you to make a pre­dic­tion for me,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge very clear­ly.

Har­ry and Ron were not the on­ly peo­ple now watch­ing and lis­ten­ing sneak­ily from be­hind their books. Most of the class were star­ing trans­fixed at Pro­fes­sor Trelawney as she drew her­self up to her full height, her beads and ban­gles clink­ing.

The In­ner Eye does not See up­on com­mand!' she said in scan­dalised tones.

'I see,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge soft­ly, mak­ing yet an­oth­er note on her clip­board.

'I - but - but… wait!' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sud­den­ly, in an at­tempt at her usu­al ethe­re­al voice, though the mys­ti­cal ef­fect was ru­ined some­what by the way it was shak­ing with anger. 'I… I think I do see some­thing… some­thing that con­cerns you… why, I sense some­thing… some­thing dark… some grave per­il…'

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney point­ed a shak­ing fin­ger at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge who con­tin­ued to smile bland­ly at her, eye­brows raised.

'I am afraid… I am afraid that you are in grave dan­ger!' Pro­fes­sor Trelawney fin­ished dra­mat­ical­ly.

There was a pause. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sur­veyed Pro­fes­sor Trelawney.

'Right,' she said soft­ly, scrib­bling on her clip­board once more. 'Well, if that's re­al­ly the best you can do…'

She turned away, leav­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney stand­ing root­ed to the spot, her chest heav­ing. Har­ry caught Ron's eye and knew that Ron was think­ing ex­act­ly the same as he was: they both knew that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was an old fraud, but on the oth­er hand, they loathed Um­bridge so much that they felt very much on Trelawneys side - un­til she swooped down on them a few sec­onds lat­er, that is.

'Well?' she said, snap­ping her long fin­gers un­der Har­ry's nose, un­char­ac­ter­is­ti­cal­ly brisk. 'Let me see the start you've made on your dream di­ary, please.'

And by the time she had in­ter­pret­ed Har­rys dreams at the top of her voice (all of which, even the ones that in­volved eat­ing por­ridge, ap­par­ent­ly fore­told a grue­some and ear­ly death), he was feel­ing much less sym­pa­thet­ic to­wards her. All the while, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge stood a few feet away, mak­ing notes on that clip­board, and when the bell rang she de­scend­ed the sil­ver lad­der first and was wait­ing for them all when they reached their De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son ten min­utes lat­er.

She was hum­ming and smil­ing to her­self when they en­tered the room. Har­ry and Ron told Hermione, who had been in Arith­man­cy, ex­act­ly what had hap­pened in Div­ina­tion while they all took out their copies of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory, but be­fore Hermione could ask any ques­tions Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge had called them all to or­der and si­lence fell.

'Wands away' she in­struct­ed them all with a smile, and those peo­ple who had been hope­ful enough to take them out, sad­ly re­turned them to their bags. 'As we fin­ished Chap­ter One last

THE HOG WARTS HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR

les­son, I would like you all to turn to page nine­teen to­day and com­mence “Chap­ter Two, Com­mon De­fen­sive The­ories and their Deriva­tion”. There will be no need to talk.'

Still smil­ing her wide, self-​sat­is­fied smile, she sat down at her desk. The class gave an au­di­ble sigh as it turned, as one, to page nine­teen. Har­ry won­dered dul­ly whether there were enough chap­ters in the book to keep them read­ing through all this year's lessons and was on the point of check­ing the con­tents page when he no­ticed that Hermione had her hand in the air again.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge had no­ticed, too, and what was more, she seemed to have worked out a strat­egy for just such an even­tu­al­ity. In­stead of try­ing to pre­tend she had not no­ticed Hermione she got to her feet and walked around the front row of desks un­til they were face to face, then she bent down and whis­pered, so that the rest of the class could not hear, 'What is it this time, Miss Granger?'

'I've al­ready read Chap­ter Two,' said Hermione.

'Well then, pro­ceed to Chap­ter Three.'

'I've read that too. I've read the whole book.'

Pro­fes­sor Umb­ndge blinked but re­cov­ered her poise al­most in­stant­ly.

'Well, then, you should be able to tell me what Slinkhard says about counter-​jinx­es in Chap­ter Fif­teen.'

'He says that counter-​jinx­es are im­prop­er­ly named,' said Hermione prompt­ly. 'He says “counter-​jinx” is just a name peo­ple give their jinx­es when they want to make them sound more ac­cept­able.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge raised her eye­brows and Har­ry knew she was im­pressed, against her will.

'But I dis­agree,' Hermione con­tin­ued.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's eye­brows rose a lit­tle high­er and her gaze be­came dis­tinct­ly cold­er.

'You dis­agree?' she re­peat­ed.

'Yes, I do,' said Hermione, who, un­like Um­bridge, was not whis­per­ing, but speak­ing in a clear, car­ry­ing voice that had by now at­tract­ed the at­ten­tion of the rest of the class. 'Mr Slinkhard doesn't like jinx­es, does he? But, I think they can be very use­ful when they're used de­fen­sive­ly.'

'Oh, you do, do you?' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, for­get­ting to whis­per and straight­en­ing up. 'Well, I'm afraid it is Mr Slinkhard's opin­ion, and not yours, that mat­ters with­in this class­room, Miss Granger.'

'But -' Hermione be­gan.

That is enough,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. She walked back to the front of the class and stood be­fore them, all the jaun­ti­ness she had shown at the be­gin­ning of the les­son gone. 'Miss Granger, I am go­ing to take five points from Gryffind­or house.'

There was an out­break of mut­ter­ing at this. :

'What for?' said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

'Don't you get in­volved!' Hermione whis­pered ur­gent­ly to him.

'For dis­rupt­ing my class with point­less in­ter­rup­tions,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge smooth­ly. 'I am here to teach you us­ing a Min­istry-​ap­proved method that does not in­clude invit­ing stu­dents to give their opin­ions on mat­ters about which they un­der­stand very lit­tle. Your pre­vi­ous teach­ers in this sub­ject may have al­lowed you more li­cence, but as none of them - with the pos­si­ble ex­cep­tion of Pro­fes­sor Quir­rell, who did at least ap­pear to have re­strict­ed him­self to age-​ap­pro­pri­ate sub­jects - would have passed a Min­istry in­spec­tion -'

'Yeah, Quir­rell was a great teach­er,' said Har­ry loud­ly, 'there was just that mi­nor draw­back of him hav­ing Lord Volde­mort stick­ing out of the back of his head.'

This pro­nounce­ment was fol­lowed by one of the loud­est si­lences Har­ry had ev­er heard. Then -

'I think an­oth­er week's de­ten­tions would do you some good, Mr Pot­ter,' said Um­bridge sleek­ly.

*

The cut on the back of Har­ry's hand had bare­ly healed and, by the fol­low­ing morn­ing, it was bleed­ing again. He did not com­plain dur­ing the evening's de­ten­tion; he was de­ter­mined not to give Um­bridge the sat­is­fac­tion; over and over again he wrote I must not tell lies and not a sound es­caped his lips, though the cut deep­ened with ev­ery let­ter.

The very worst part of this sec­ond week's worth of de­ten­tions was, just as George had pre­dict­ed, An­geli­nas re­ac­tion. She cor­nered him just as he ar­rived at the Gryffind­or ta­ble for break­fast on Tues­day and shout­ed so loud­ly that Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came sweep­ing down up­on the pair of them from the staff ta­ble.

'Miss John­son, how dare you make such a rack­et in the Great Hall! Five points from Gryffind­or!'

'But Pro­fes­sor - he's gone and land­ed him­self in de­ten­tion again -

'What's this, Pot­ter?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply, round­ing on Har­ry. 'De­ten­tion? From whom?'

'From Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge,' mut­tered Har­ry, not meet­ing Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­galls beady, square-​framed eyes.

'Are you telling me,' she said, low­er­ing her voice so that the group of cu­ri­ous Raven­claws be­hind them could not hear, 'that af­ter the warn­ing I gave you last Mon­day you lost your tem­per in Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's class again?'

'Yes,' Har­ry mut­tered, speak­ing to the floor.

'Pot­ter, you must get a grip on your­self! You are head­ing for se­ri­ous trou­ble! An­oth­er five points from Gryffind­or!'

'But - what -? Pro­fes­sor, no!' Har­ry said, fu­ri­ous at this in­jus­tice, 'I'm al­ready be­ing pun­ished by her, why do you have to take points as well?'

'Be­cause de­ten­tions do not ap­pear to have any ef­fect on you what­so­ev­er!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall tart­ly. 'No, not an­oth­er word of com­plaint, Pot­ter! And as for you, Miss John­son, you will con­fine your shout­ing match­es to the Quid­ditch pitch in fu­ture or risk los­ing the team cap­tain­cy!'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall strode back to­wards the staff ta­ble. An­geli­na gave Har­ry a look of deep­est dis­gust and stalked away, up­on which he flung him­self on to the bench be­side Ron, fum­ing.

'She's tak­en points off Gryffind­or be­cause I'm hav­ing my hand sliced open ev­ery night! How is that fair, how?'

'I know, mate,' said Ron sym­pa­thet­ical­ly, tip­ping ba­con on to Har­ry's plate, 'she's bang out of or­der.'

Hermione, how­ev­er, mere­ly rus­tled the pages of her Dai­ly Prophet and said noth­ing.

'You think McG­ona­gall was right, do you?' said Har­ry an­gri­ly to the pic­ture of Cor­nelius Fudge ob­scur­ing Hermione's face.

'I wish she hadn't tak­en points from you, but I think she's right to warn you not to lose your tem­per with Um­bridge,' said Hermione's voice, while Fudge ges­tic­ulat­ed force­ful­ly from the front page, clear­ly giv­ing some kind of speech.

Har­ry did not speak to Hermione all through Charms, but when they en­tered Trans­fig­ura­tion he for­got about be­ing cross with her. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge and her clip­board were sit­ting in a cor­ner and the sight of her drove the mem­ory of break­fast right out of his head.

'Ex­cel­lent,' whis­pered Ron, as they sat down in their usu­al seats. 'Let's see Um­bridge get what she de­serves.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall marched in­to the room with­out giv­ing the slight­est in­di­ca­tion that she knew Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was there.

That will do,' she said and si­lence fell im­me­di­ate­ly. 'Mr Finni­gan, kind­ly come here and hand back the home­work - Miss Brown, please take this box of mice - don't be sil­ly, girl, they won't hurt you - and hand one to each stu­dent -'

'Hem, hem,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, em­ploy­ing the same sil­ly lit­tle cough she had used to in­ter­rupt Dum­ble­dore on the first night of term. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ig­nored her. Sea­mus hand­ed back Har­ry's es­say; Har­ry took it with­out look­ing at him and saw, to his re­lief, that he had man­aged an 'A'.

'Right then, ev­ery­one, lis­ten close­ly - Dean Thomas, if you do that to the mouse again I shall put you in de­ten­tion - most of you have now suc­cess­ful­ly Van­ished your snails and even those who were left with a cer­tain amount of shell have got the gist of the spell. To­day, we shall be -'

'Hem, hem,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

'Yes?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing round, her eye­brows so close to­geth­er they seemed to form one long, se­vere line.

'1 was just won­der­ing, Pro­fes­sor, whether you re­ceived my note telling you of the date and time of your in­spec—'

'Ob­vi­ous­ly I re­ceived it, or I would have asked you what you are do­ing in my class­room,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing her back firm­ly on Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Many of the stu­dents ex­changed looks of glee. 'As I was say­ing: to­day, we shall be prac­tis­ing the al­to­geth­er more dif­fi­cult Van­ish­ment of mice. Now, the Van­ish­ing Spell -'

'Hem, hem.'

'I won­der,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in cold fury, turn­ing on Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, 'how you ex­pect to gain an idea of my usu­al teach­ing meth­ods if you con­tin­ue to in­ter­rupt me? You see, I do not gen­er­al­ly per­mit peo­ple to talk when I am talk­ing.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge looked as though she had just been slapped in the face. She did not speak, but straight­ened the parch­ment on her clip­board and be­gan scrib­bling fu­ri­ous­ly.

Look­ing supreme­ly un­con­cerned, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ad­dressed the class once more.

'As I was say­ing: the Van­ish­ing Spell be­comes more dif­fi­cult with the com­plex­ity of the an­imal to be Van­ished. The snail, as an in­ver­te­brate, does not present much of a chal­lenge; the mouse, as a mam­mal, of­fers a much greater one. This is not, there­fore, mag­ic you can ac­com­plish with your mind on your din­ner. So - you know the in­can­ta­tion, let me see what you can do…'

'How she can lec­ture me about not los­ing my tem­per with Um­bridge!' Har­ry mut­tered to Ron un­der his breath, but he was grin­ning - his anger with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had quite evap­orat­ed.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge did not fol­low Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall around the class as she had fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor Trelawney; per­haps she re­alised Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall would not per­mit it. She did, how­ev­er, take many more notes while sit­ting in her cor­ner, and when Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall fi­nal­ly told them all to pack away, she rose with a grim ex­pres­sion on her face.

'Well, it's a start,' said Ron, hold­ing up a long wrig­gling mouse-​tail and drop­ping it back in­to the box Laven­der was pass­ing around.

As they filed out of the class­room, Har­ry saw Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge ap­proach the teach­er's desk; he nudged Ron, who nudged Hermione in turn, and the three of them de­lib­er­ate­ly fell back to eaves­drop.

'How long have you been teach­ing at Hog­warts?' Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge asked.

Thir­ty-​nine years this De­cem­ber,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall brusque­ly, snap­ping her bag shut.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge made a note.

'Very well,' she said, 'you will re­ceive the re­sults of your in­spec­tion in ten days' time.'

'I can hard­ly wait,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, in a cold­ly in­dif­fer­ent voice, and she strode off to­wards the door. 'Hur­ry up, you three,' she added, sweep­ing Har­ry, Ron and Hermione be­fore her.

Har­ry could not help giv­ing her a faint smile and could have sworn he re­ceived one in re­turn.

He had thought that the next time he would see Um­bridge would be in his de­ten­tion that evening, but he was wrong. When they walked down the lawns to­wards the For­est for Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures, they found her and her clip­board wait­ing for them be­side Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank.

'You do not usu­al­ly take this class, is that cor­rect?' Har­ry heard her ask as they ar­rived at the tres­tle ta­ble where the group of cap­tive Bowtruck­les were scrab­bling around for woodlice like so many liv­ing twigs.

'Quite cor­rect,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, hands be­hind her back and bounc­ing on the balls of her feet. 'I am a sub­sti­tute teach­er stand­ing in for Pro­fes­sor Ha­grid.'

Har­ry ex­changed un­easy looks with Ron and Hermione. Mal­foy was whis­per­ing with Crabbe and Goyle; he would sure­ly love this op­por­tu­ni­ty to tell tales on Ha­grid to a mem­ber of the Min­istry.

'Hmm,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, drop­ping her voice, though Har­ry could still hear her quite clear­ly. '1 won­der - the Head­mas­ter seems strange­ly re­luc­tant to give me any in­for­ma­tion on the mat­ter - can you tell me what is caus­ing Pro­fes­sor Ha­grid's very ex­tend­ed leave of ab­sence?'

Har­ry saw Mal­foy look up ea­ger­ly and watch Um­bridge and Grub­bly-​Plank close­ly.

'Fraid I can't,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank breezi­ly. 'Don't know any­thing more about it than you do. Got an owl from Dum­ble­dore, would I like a cou­ple of weeks' teach­ing work. I ac­cept­ed. That's as much as I know. Well… shall I get start­ed then?'

'Yes, please do,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, scrib­bling on her clip­board.

Um­bridge took a dif­fer­ent tack in this class and wan­dered amongst the stu­dents, ques­tion­ing them on mag­ical crea­tures. Most peo­ple were able to an­swer well and Har­ry's spir­its lift­ed some­what; at least the class was not let­ting Ha­grid down.

'Over­all,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, re­turn­ing to Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank's side af­ter a lengthy in­ter­ro­ga­tion of Dean Thomas, 'how do you, as a tem­po­rary mem­ber of staff- an ob­jec­tive out­sider,

I sup­pose you might say — how do you find Hog­warts? Do you feel you re­ceive enough sup­port from the school man­age­ment?'

'Oh, yes, Dum­ble­dore's ex­cel­lent,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank hearti­ly. 'Yes, I'm very hap­py with the way things are run, very hap­py in­deed.'

Look­ing po­lite­ly in­cred­ulous, Um­bridge made a tiny note on her clip­board and went on, 'And what are you plan­ning to cov­er with this class this year - as­sum­ing, of course, that Pro­fes­sor Ha­grid does not re­turn?'

'Oh, I'll take them through the crea­tures that most of­ten come up in OWL,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank. 'Not much left to do - they've stud­ied uni­corns and Nif­flers, I thought we'd cov­er Por­locks and Knea­zles, make sure they can recog­nise Crups and Knarls, you know…'

'Well, you seem to know what you're do­ing, at any rate,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, mak­ing a very ob­vi­ous tick on her clip­board. Har­ry did not like the em­pha­sis she put on 'you' and liked it even less when she put her next ques­tion to Goyle. 'Now, I hear there have been in­juries in this class?'

Goyle gave a stupid grin. Mal­foy has­tened to an­swer the ques­tion.

That was me,' he said. '1 was slashed by a Hip­pogriff.'

'A Hip­pogriff?' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, now scrib­bling fran­ti­cal­ly.

'On­ly be­cause he was too stupid to lis­ten to what Ha­grid told him to do,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

Both Ron and Hermione groaned. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge turned her head slow­ly in Har­ry's di­rec­tion.

'An­oth­er nights de­ten­tion, I think,' she said soft­ly. 'Well, thank you very much, Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, I think that's all I need here. You will be re­ceiv­ing the re­sults of your in­spec­tion with­in ten days.'

'Jol­ly good,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, and Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge set off back across the lawn to the cas­tle.

*

It was near­ly mid­night when Har­ry left Um­bridge's of­fice that night, his hand now bleed­ing so severe­ly that it was stain­ing the scarf he had wrapped around it. He ex­pect­ed the com­mon room to be emp­ty when he re­turned, but Ron and Hermione had sat up wait­ing for him. He was pleased to see them, es­pe­cial­ly as Hermione was dis­posed to be sym­pa­thet­ic rather than crit­ical.

'Here,' she said anx­ious­ly, push­ing a small bowl of yel­low liq­uid to­wards him, 'soak your hand in that, it's a so­lu­tion of strained and pick­led Murt­lap ten­ta­cles, it should help.'

Har­ry placed his bleed­ing, aching hand in­to the bowl and ex­pe­ri­enced a won­der­ful feel­ing of re­lief. Crook­shanks curled around his legs, purring loud­ly, then leapt in­to his lap and set­tled down.

'Thanks,' he said grate­ful­ly, scratch­ing be­hind Crook­shanks's ears with his left hand.

'I still reck­on you should com­plain about this,' said Ron in a low voice.

'No,' said Har­ry flat­ly.

'McG­ona­gall would go nuts if she knew —'

'Yeah, she prob­ably would,' said Har­ry dul­ly. 'And how long do you reck­on it'd take Um­bridge to pass an­oth­er de­cree say­ing any­one who com­plains about the High In­quisi­tor gets sacked im­me­di­ate­ly?'

Ron opened his mouth to re­tort but noth­ing came out and, af­ter a mo­ment, he closed it again, de­feat­ed.

'She's an aw­ful wom­an,' said Hermione in a small voice. 'Aw­ful. You know, I was just say­ing to Ron when you came in… we've got to do some­thing about her.'

'I sug­gest­ed poi­son,' said Ron grim­ly.

'No… I mean, some­thing about what a dread­ful teach­er she is, and how we're not go­ing to learn any De­fence from her at all,' said Hermione.

'Well, what can we do about that?' said Ron, yawn­ing. "S too late, isn't it? She's got the job, she's here to stay. Fudge'll make sure of that.'

'Well,' said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly. 'You know, I was think­ing to­day…' she shot a slight­ly ner­vous look at Har­ry and then plunged on, 'I was think­ing that - maybe the time's come when we should just - just do it our­selves.'

'Do what our­selves?' said Har­ry sus­pi­cious­ly, still float­ing his hand in the essence of Murt­lap ten­ta­cles.

'Well - learn De­fence Against the Dark Arts our­selves,' said Hermione.

'Come off it,' groaned Ron. 'You want us to do ex­tra work? D'you re­alise Har­ry and I are be­hind on home­work again and it's on­ly the sec­ond week?'

'But this is much more im­por­tant than home­work!' said Hermione.

Har­ry and Ron gog­gled at her.

'I didn't think there was any­thing in the uni­verse more im­por­tant than home­work!' said Ron.

'Don't be sil­ly, of course there is,' said Hermione, and Har­ry saw, with an omi­nous feel­ing, that her face was sud­den­ly alight with the kind of fer­vour that SPEW usu­al­ly in­spired in her. 'It's about prepar­ing our­selves, like Har­ry said in Um­bridge's first les­son, for what's wait­ing for us out there. It's about mak­ing sure we re­al­ly can de­fend our­selves. If we don't learn any­thing for a whole year -'

'We can't do much by our­selves,' said Ron in a de­feat­ed voice. 'I mean, all right, we can go and look jinx­es up in the li­brary and try and prac­tise them, I sup­pose -'

'No, I agree, we've gone past the stage where we can just learn things out of books,' said Hermione. 'We need a teach­er, a prop­er one, who can show us how to use the spells and cor­rect us if we're go­ing wrong.'

'If you're talk­ing about Lupin…' Har­ry be­gan.

'No, no, I'm not talk­ing about Lupin,' said Hermione. 'He's too busy with the Or­der and, any­way, the most we could see him is dur­ing Hogsmeade week­ends and that's not near­ly of­ten enough.'

'Who, then?' said Har­ry, frown­ing at her.

Hermione heaved a very deep sigh.

'Isn't it ob­vi­ous?' she said. 'I'm talk­ing about you, Har­ry.'

There was a mo­ment's si­lence. A light night breeze rat­tled the win­dow­panes be­hind Ron, and the fire gut­tered.

'About me what?' said Har­ry.

'I'm talk­ing about you teach­ing us De­fence Against the Dark Arts.'

Har­ry stared at her. Then he turned to Ron, ready to ex­change the ex­as­per­at­ed looks they some­times shared when Hermione elab­orat­ed on far-​fetched schemes like SPEW To Har­rys con­ster­na­tion, how­ev­er, Ron did not look ex­as­per­at­ed.

He was frown­ing slight­ly, ap­par­ent­ly think­ing. Then he said, That's an idea.'

'What's an idea?' said Har­ry.

'You,' said Ron. Teach­ing us to do it.'

'But…'

Har­ry was grin­ning now, sure the pair of them were pulling his leg.

'But I'm not a teach­er, I can't -'

'Har­ry, you're the best in the year at De­fence Against the Dark Arts,' said Hermione.

'Me?' said Har­ry, now grin­ning more broad­ly than ev­er. 'No I'm not, you've beat­en me in ev­ery test -'

'Ac­tu­al­ly, I haven't,' said Hermione cool­ly. 'You beat me in our third year - the on­ly year we both sat the test and had a teach­er who ac­tu­al­ly knew the sub­ject. But I'm not talk­ing about test re­sults, Har­ry. Think what you've done]'

'How d'you mean?'

'You know what, I'm not sure I want some­one this stupid teach­ing me,' Ron said to Hermione, smirk­ing slight­ly. He turned to Har­ry.

'Let's think,' he said, pulling a face like Goyle con­cen­trat­ing. 'Uh… first year - you saved the Philoso­pher's Stone from You-​Know-​Who.'

'But that was luck,' said Har­ry, 'it wasn't skill -'

'Sec­ond year,' Ron in­ter­rupt­ed, 'you killed the Basilisk and de­stroyed Rid­dle.'

'Yeah, but if Fawkes hadn't turned up, I -'

Third year,' said Ron, loud­er still, 'you fought off about a hun­dred De­men­tors at once -'

'You know that was a fluke, if the Time-​Turn­er hadn't -'

'Last year,' Ron said, al­most shout­ing now, 'you fought off You-​Know-​Who again -'

'Lis­ten to me!' said Har­ry, al­most an­gri­ly, be­cause Ron and Hermione were both smirk­ing now. 'Just lis­ten to me, all right? It sounds great when you say it like that, but all that stuff was luck - I didn't know what I was do­ing half the time, I didn't plan any of it, I just did what­ev­er I could think of, and I near­ly al­ways had help -'

Ron and Hermione were still smirk­ing and Har­ry felt his tem­per rise; he wasn't even sure why he was feel­ing so an­gry.

'Don't sit there grin­ning like you know bet­ter than I do, I was there, wasn't 1?' he said heat­ed­ly. 'I know what went on, all right? And I didn't get through any of that be­cause I was bril­liant at De­fence Against the Dark Arts, I got through it all be­cause - be­cause help came at the right time, or be­cause I guessed right - but I just blun­dered through it all, I didn't have a clue what I was do­ing -STOP LAUGH­ING!'

The bowl of Murt­lap essence fell to the floor and smashed. He be­came aware that he was on his feet, though he couldn't re­mem­ber stand­ing up. Crook­shanks streaked away un­der a so­fa. Ron and Hermione's smiles had van­ished.

'You don't know what it's like! You - nei­ther of you - you've nev­er had to face him, have you? You think it's just mem­oris­ing a bunch of spells and throw­ing them at him, like you're in class or some­thing? The whole time you're sure you know there's noth­ing be­tween you and dy­ing ex­cept your own - your own brain or guts or what­ev­er -like you can think straight when you know you're about a nanosec­ond from be­ing mur­dered, or tor­tured, or watch­ing your friends die -they've nev­er taught us that in their class­es, what it's like to deal with things like that - and you two sit there act­ing like I'm a clever lit­tle boy to be stand­ing here, alive, like Dig­gory was stupid, like he messed up — you just don't get it, that could just as eas­ily have been me, it would have been if Volde­mort hadn't need­ed me -'

'We weren't say­ing any­thing like that, mate,' said Ron, look­ing aghast. 'We weren't hav­ing a go at Dig­gory, we didn't - you've got the wrong end of the -'

He looked help­less­ly at Hermione, whose face was strick­en.

'Har­ry,' she said timid­ly, 'don't you see? This… this is ex­act­ly why we need you… we need to know what it's r-​re­al­ly like… fac­ing him… fac­ing V-​Volde­mort.'

It was the first time she had ev­er said Volde­mort's name and it was this, more than any­thing else, that calmed Har­ry. Still breath­ing hard, he sank back in­to his chair, be­com­ing aware as he did so that his hand was throb­bing hor­ri­bly again. He wished he had not smashed the bowl of Murt­lap essence.

'Well… think about it,' said Hermione qui­et­ly. 'Please?'

Har­ry could not think of any­thing to say. He was feel­ing ashamed of his out­burst al­ready. He nod­ded, hard­ly aware of what he was agree­ing to.

Hermione stood up.

'Well, I'm off to bed,' she said, in a voice that was clear­ly as nat­ural as she could make it. 'Erm… night.'

Ron had got to his feet, too.

'Com­ing?' he said awk­ward­ly to Har­ry.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'In… in a minute. I'll just clear this up.'

He in­di­cat­ed the smashed bowl on the floor. Ron nod­ded and left.

'Reparo,' Har­ry mut­tered, point­ing his wand at the bro­ken pieces of chi­na. They flew back to­geth­er, good as new, but there was no re­turn­ing the Murt­lap essence to the bowl.

He was sud­den­ly so tired he was tempt­ed to sink back in­to his arm­chair and sleep there, but in­stead he forced him­self to his feet and fol­lowed Ron up­stairs. His rest­less night was punc­tu­at­ed once more by dreams of long cor­ri­dors and locked doors and he awoke next day with his scar prick­ling again.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 16 - In the Hog’s Head


Hermione made no men­tion of Har­ry giv­ing De­fence Against the Dark Arts lessons for two whole weeks af­ter her orig­inal sug­ges­tion. Har­ry's de­ten­tions with Um­bridge were fi­nal­ly over (he doubt­ed whether the words now etched in­to the back of his hand would ev­er fade en­tire­ly); Ron had had four more Quid­ditch prac­tices and not been shout­ed at dur­ing the last two; and all three of them had man­aged to Van­ish their mice in Trans­fig­ura­tion (Hermione had ac­tu­al­ly pro­gressed to Van­ish­ing kit­tens), be­fore the sub­ject was broached again, on a wild, blus­tery evening at the end of Septem­ber, when the three of them were sit­ting in the li­brary, look­ing up po­tion in­gre­di­ents for Snape.

'I was won­der­ing,' Hermione said sud­den­ly, 'whether you'd thought any more about De­fence Against the Dark Arts, Har­ry.'

'Course I have,' said Har­ry grumpi­ly, 'can't for­get it, can we, with that hag teach­ing us -'

'I meant the idea Ron and I had -' Ron cast her an alarmed, threat­en­ing kind of look. She frowned at him, '- Oh, all right, the idea I had, then - about you teach­ing us.'

Har­ry did not an­swer at once. He pre­tend­ed to be pe­rus­ing a page of Asi­at­ic An­ti-​Ven­oms, be­cause he did not want to say what was in his mind.

He had giv­en the mat­ter a great deal of thought over the past fort­night. Some­times it seemed an in­sane idea, just as it had on the night Hermione had pro­posed it, but at oth­ers, he had found him­self think­ing about the spells that had served him best in his var­ious en­coun­ters with Dark crea­tures and Death Eaters - found him­self, in fact, sub­con­scious­ly plan­ning lessons…

'Well,' he said slow­ly, when he could no longer pre­tend to find Asi­at­ic An­ti-​Ven­oms in­ter­est­ing, 'yeah, I - I've thought about it a bit.'

'And?' said Hermione ea­ger­ly.

'I dun­no,' said Har­ry, play­ing for time. He looked up at Ron.

'I thought it was a good idea from the start,' said Ron, who seemed keen­er to join in this con­ver­sa­tion now that he was sure Har­ry was not go­ing to start shout­ing again.

Har­ry shift­ed un­com­fort­ably in his chair.

'You did lis­ten to what I said about a load of it be­ing luck, didn't you?'

'Yes, Har­ry,' said Hermione gen­tly, 'but all the same, there's no point pre­tend­ing that you're not good at De­fence Against the Dark Arts, be­cause you are. You were the on­ly per­son last year who could throw off the Im­perius Curse com­plete­ly, you can pro­duce a Pa­tronus, you can do all sorts of stuff that full-​grown wiz­ards can't, Vik­tor al­ways said -'

Ron looked round at her so fast he ap­peared to crick his neck. Rub­bing it, he said, 'Yeah? What did Vicky say?'

'Ho ho,' said Hermione in a bored voice. 'He said Har­ry knew how to do stuff even he didn't, and he was in the fi­nal year at Durm­strang.'

Ron was look­ing at Hermione sus­pi­cious­ly.

'You're not still in con­tact with him, are you?'

'So what if I am?' said Hermione cool­ly, though her face was a lit­tle pink. 'I can have a pen-​pal if I -'

'He didn't on­ly want to be your pen-​pal,' said Ron ac­cus­ing­ly.

Hermione shook her head ex­as­per­at­ed­ly and, ig­nor­ing Ron, who was con­tin­uing to watch her, said to Har­ry, 'Well, what do you think? Will you teach us?'

'Just you and Ron, yeah?'

'Well,' said Hermione, look­ing a mite anx­ious again. 'Well… now, don't fly off the han­dle again, Har­ry, please… but I re­al­ly think you ought to teach any­one who wants to learn. I mean, we're talk­ing about de­fend­ing our­selves against V-​Volde­mort. Oh, don't be pa­thet­ic, Ron. It doesn't seem fair if we don't of­fer the chance to oth­er peo­ple.'

Har­ry con­sid­ered this for a mo­ment, then said, 'Yeah, but I

doubt any­one ex­cept you two would want to be taught by me. I'm a nut­ter, re­mem­ber?'

'Well, I think you might be sur­prised how many peo­ple would be in­ter­est­ed in hear­ing what you've got to say' said Hermione se­ri­ous­ly. 'Look,' she leaned to­wards him - Ron, who was still watch­ing her with a frown on his face, leaned for­wards to lis­ten too - 'you know the first week­end in Oc­to­ber's a Hogsmeade week­end? How would it be if we tell any­one who's in­ter­est­ed to meet us in the vil­lage and we can talk it over?'

'Why do we have to do it out­side school?' said Ron.

'Be­cause,' said Hermione, re­turn­ing to the di­agram of the Chi­nese Chomp­ing Cab­bage she was copy­ing, 'I don't think Um­bridge would be very hap­py if she found out what we were up to.'

*

Har­ry had been look­ing for­ward to the week­end trip in­to Hogsmeade, but there was one thing wor­ry­ing him. Sir­ius had main­tained a stony si­lence since he had ap­peared in the fire at the be­gin­ning of Septem­ber; Har­ry knew they had made him an­gry by say­ing they didn't want him to come - but he still wor­ried from time to time that Sir­ius might throw cau­tion to the winds and turn up any­way. What were they go­ing to do if the great black dog came bound­ing up the street to­wards them in Hogsmeade, per­haps un­der the nose of Dra­co Mal­foy?

'Well, you can't blame him for want­ing to get out and about,' said Ron, when Har­ry dis­cussed his fears with him and Hermione. 'I mean, he's been on the run for over two years, hasn't he, and I know that can't have been a laugh, but at least he was free, wasn't he? And now he's just shut up all the time with that ghast­ly elf.'

Hermione scowled at Ron, but oth­er­wise ig­nored the slight on Kreach­er.

The trou­ble is,' she said to Har­ry, 'un­til V-​Volde­mort - oh, for heav­en's sake, Ron - comes out in­to the open, Sir­ius is go­ing to have to stay hid­den, isn't he? I mean, the stupid Min­istry isn't go­ing to re­alise Sir­ius is in­no­cent un­til they ac­cept that Dum­ble­dore's been telling the truth about him all along. And once the fools start catch­ing re­al Death Eaters again, it'll be ob­vi­ous Sir­ius isn't one… I mean, he hasn't got the Mark, for one thing.'

'I don't reck­on he'd be stupid enough to turn up,' said Ron brac-​in­gly. 'Dum­ble­dore'd go mad if he did and Sir­ius lis­tens to Dum­ble­dore even if he doesn't like what he hears.'

When Har­ry con­tin­ued to look wor­ried, Hermione said, 'Lis­ten, Ron and I have been sound­ing out peo­ple who we thought might want to learn some prop­er De­fence Against the Dark Arts, and there are a cou­ple who seem in­ter­est­ed. We've told them to meet us in Hogsmeade.'

'Right,' said Har­ry vague­ly, his mind still on Sir­ius.

'Don't wor­ry, Har­ry' Hermione said qui­et­ly. 'You've got enough on your plate with­out Sir­ius, too.'

She was quite right, of course, he was bare­ly keep­ing up with his home­work, though he was do­ing much bet­ter now that he was no longer spend­ing ev­ery evening in de­ten­tion with Um­bridge. Ron was even fur­ther be­hind with his work than Har­ry, be­cause while they both had Quid­ditch prac­tice twice a week, Ron al­so had his pre­fect du­ties. How­ev­er, Hermione, who was tak­ing more sub­jects than ei­ther of them, had not on­ly fin­ished all her home­work but was al­so find­ing time to knit more elf clothes. Har­ry had to ad­mit that she was get­ting bet­ter; it was now al­most al­ways pos­si­ble to dis­tin­guish be­tween the hats and the socks.

The morn­ing of the Hogsmeade vis­it dawned bright but windy. Af­ter break­fast they queued up in front of Filch, who matched their names to the long list of stu­dents who had per­mis­sion from their par­ents or guardian to vis­it the vil­lage. With a slight pang, Har­ry re­mem­bered that if it hadn't been for Sir­ius, he would not have been go­ing at all.

When Har­ry reached Filch, the care­tak­er gave a great sniff as though try­ing to de­tect a whiff of some­thing from Har­ry. Then he gave a curt nod that set his jowls aquiver again and Har­ry walked on, out on to the stone steps and the cold, sun­lit day.

'Er - why was Filch sniff­ing you?' asked Ron, as he, Har­ry and Hermione set off at a brisk pace down the wide drive to the gates.

'I sup­pose he was check­ing for the smell of Dung­bombs,' said Har­ry with a small laugh. 'I for­got to tell you…'

And he re­count­ed the sto­ry of send­ing his let­ter to Sir­ius and Filch burst­ing in sec­onds lat­er, de­mand­ing to see the let­ter. To his slight sur­prise, Hermione found this sto­ry high­ly in­ter­est­ing, much more, in­deed, than he did him­self.

'He said he was tipped off you were or­der­ing Dung­bombs? But who tipped him off?'

'I dun­no,' said Har­ry, shrug­ging. 'Maybe Mal­foy, he'd think it was a laugh.'

They walked be­tween the tall stone pil­lars topped with winged boars and turned left on to the road in­to the vil­lage, the wind whip­ping their hair in­to their eyes.

'Mal­foy?' said Hermione, scep­ti­cal­ly. 'Well… yes… maybe…'

And she re­mained deep in thought all the way in­to the out­skirts of Hogsmeade.

'Where are we go­ing, any­way?' Har­ry asked. The Three Broom­sticks?'

'Oh - no,' said Hermione, com­ing out of her rever­ie, 'no, it's al­ways packed and re­al­ly noisy. I've told the oth­ers to meet us in the Hog's Head, that oth­er pub, you know the one, it's not on the main road. I think it's a bit… you know… dodgy… but stu­dents don't nor­mal­ly go in there, so I don't think we'll be over­heard.'

They walked down the main street past Zonko's Wiz­ard­ing Joke Shop, where they were not sur­prised to see Fred, George and Lee Jor­dan, past the post of­fice, from which owls is­sued at reg­ular in­ter­vals, and turned up a side-​street at the top of which stood a small inn. A bat­tered wood­en sign hung from a rusty brack­et over the door, with a pic­ture on it of a wild boar's sev­ered head, leak­ing blood on to the white cloth around it. The sign creaked in the wind as they ap­proached. All three of them hes­itat­ed out­side the door.

'Well, come on,' said Hermione, slight­ly ner­vous­ly. Har­ry led the way in­side.

It was not at all like the Three Broom­sticks, whose large bar gave an im­pres­sion of gleam­ing warmth and clean­li­ness. The Hog's Head bar com­prised one small, dingy and very dirty room that smelled strong­ly of some­thing that might have been goats. The bay win­dows were so en­crust­ed with grime that very lit­tle day­light could per­me­ate the room, which was lit in­stead with the stubs of can­dles sit­ting on rough wood­en ta­bles. The floor seemed at first glance to be com­pressed earth, though as Har­ry stepped on to it he re­alised that there was stone be­neath what seemed to be the ac­cu­mu­lat­ed filth of cen­turies.

Har­ry re­mem­bered Ha­grid men­tion­ing this pub in his first year: 'Yeh get a lot o' fun­ny folk in the Hogs Head/ he had said, ex­plain­ing how he had won a drag­on's egg from a hood­ed stranger there. At the time Har­ry had won­dered why Ha­grid had not found it odd that the stranger kept his face hid­den through­out their en­counter; now he saw that keep­ing your face hid­den was some­thing of a fash­ion in the Hog's Head. There was a man at the bar whose whole head was wrapped in dirty grey ban­dages, though he was still man­ag­ing to gulp end­less glass­es of some smok­ing, fiery sub­stance through a slit over his mouth; two fig­ures shroud­ed in hoods sat at a ta­ble in one of the win­dows; Har­ry might have thought them De­men­tors if they had not been talk­ing in strong York­shire ac­cents, and in a shad­owy cor­ner be­side the fire­place sat a witch with a thick, black veil that fell to her toes. They could just see the tip of her nose be­cause it caused the veil to pro­trude slight­ly.

'I don't know about this, Hermione,' Har­ry mut­tered, as they crossed to the bar. He was look­ing par­tic­ular­ly at the heav­ily veiled witch. 'Has it oc­curred to you Um­bridge might be un­der that?'

Hermione cast an ap­prais­ing eye over the veiled fig­ure.

'Um­bridge is short­er than that wom­an,' she said qui­et­ly. 'And any­way, even if Um­bridge does come in here there's noth­ing she can do to stop us, Har­ry, be­cause I've dou­ble- and triple-​checked the school rules. We're not out of bounds; I specif­ical­ly asked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick whether stu­dents were al­lowed to come in the Hog's Head, and he said yes, but he ad­vised me strong­ly to bring our own glass­es. And I've looked up ev­ery­thing I can think of about study groups and home­work groups and they're def­inite­ly al­lowed. I just don't think it's a good idea if we pa­rade what we're do­ing.'

'No,' said Har­ry dri­ly, 'es­pe­cial­ly as it's not ex­act­ly a home­work group you're plan­ning, is it?'

The bar­man si­dled to­wards them out of a back room. He was a grumpy-​look­ing old man with a great deal of long grey hair and beard. He was tall and thin and looked vague­ly fa­mil­iar to Har­ry.

'What?' he grunt­ed.

Three But­ter­beers, please,' said Hermione.

The man reached be­neath the counter and pulled up three very dusty, very dirty bot­tles, which he slammed on the bar.

'Six Sick­les,' he said.

Til get them,' said Har­ry quick­ly, pass­ing over the sil­ver. The bar­man's eyes trav­elled over Har­ry, rest­ing for a frac­tion of a sec­ond on his scar. Then he turned away and de­posit­ed Har­ry's mon­ey in an an­cient wood­en till whose draw­er slid open au­to­mat­ical­ly to re­ceive it. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione re­treat­ed to the fur­thest ta­ble from the bar and sat down, look­ing around. The man in the dirty grey ban­dages rapped the counter with his knuck­les and re­ceived an­oth­er smok­ing drink from the bar­man.

'You know what?' Ron mur­mured, look­ing over at the bar with en­thu­si­asm. 'We could or­der any­thing we liked in here. I bet that bloke would sell us any­thing, he wouldn't care. I've al­ways want­ed to try Firewhisky -'

'You - are - a - pre­fect,' snarled Hermione.

'Oh,' said Ron, the smile fad­ing from his face. 'Yeah…'

'So, who did you say is sup­posed to be meet­ing us?' Har­ry asked, wrench­ing open the rusty top of his But­ter­beer and tak­ing a swig.

'Just a cou­ple of peo­ple,' Hermione re­peat­ed, check­ing her watch and look­ing anx­ious­ly to­wards the door. 'I told them to be here about now and I'm sure they all know where it is - oh, look, this might be them now.'

The door of the pub had opened. A thick band of dusty sun­light split the room in two for a mo­ment and then van­ished, blocked by the in­com­ing rush of a crowd of peo­ple.

First came Neville with Dean and Laven­der, who were close­ly fol­lowed by Par­vati and Pad­ma Patil with (Har­ry's stom­ach did a back-​flip) Cho and one of her usu­al­ly-​gig­gling girl­friends, then (on her own and look­ing so dreamy she might have walked in by ac­ci­dent) Lu­na Love­good; then Katie Bell, Ali­cia Spin­net and An­geli­na John­son, Col­in and Den­nis Creevey, Ernie Macmil­lan, Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley, Han­nah Ab­bott, a Huf­flepuff girl with a long plait down her back whose name Har­ry did not know; three Raven­claw boys he was pret­ty sure were called An­tho­ny Gold­stein, Michael Cor­ner and Ter­ry Boot, Gin­ny, close­ly fol­lowed by a tall skin­ny blond boy with an up­turned nose whom Har­ry recog­nised vague­ly as be­ing a mem­ber of the Huf­flepuff Quid­ditch team and, bring­ing up the rear, Fred and George Weasley with their friend Lee Jor­dan, all three of whom were car­ry­ing large pa­per bags crammed with Zonko's mer­chan­dise.

'A cou­ple of peo­ple?' said Har­ry hoarse­ly to Hermione. 'A cou­ple of peo­ple?'

'Yes, well, the idea seemed quite pop­ular,' said Hermione hap­pi­ly 'Ron, do you want to pull up some more chairs?'

The bar­man had frozen in the act of wip­ing out a glass with a rag so filthy it looked as though it had nev­er been washed. Pos­si­bly, he had nev­er seen his pub so full.

'Hi,' said Fred, reach­ing the bar first and count­ing his com­pan­ions quick­ly, 'could we have… twen­ty-​five But­ter­beers, please?'

The bar­man glared at him for a mo­ment, then, throw­ing down his rag ir­ri­ta­bly as though he had been in­ter­rupt­ed in some­thing very im­por­tant, he start­ed pass­ing up dusty But­ter­beers from un­der the bar.

'Cheers,' said Fred, hand­ing them out. 'Cough up, ev­ery­one, I haven't got enough gold for all of these…'

Har­ry watched numbly as the large chat­ter­ing group took their beers from Fred and rum­maged in their robes to find coins. He could not imag­ine what all these peo­ple had turned up for un­til the hor­ri­ble thought oc­curred to him that they might be ex­pect­ing some kind of speech, at which he round­ed on Hermione.

'What have you been telling peo­ple?' he said in a low voice. 'What are they ex­pect­ing?'

'I've told you, they just want to hear what you've got to say,' said Hermione sooth­ing­ly; but Har­ry con­tin­ued to look at her so fu­ri­ous­ly that she added quick­ly, 'you don't have to do any­thing yet, I'll speak to them first.'

'Hi, Har­ry,' said Neville, beam­ing and tak­ing a seat op­po­site him.

Har­ry tried to smile back, but did not speak; his mouth was ex­cep­tion­al­ly dry. Cho had just smiled at him and sat down on Ron's right. Her friend, who had curly red­dish-​blonde hair, did not smile, but gave Har­ry a thor­ough­ly mis­trust­ful look which plain­ly told him that, giv­en her way, she would not be here at all.

In twos and threes the new ar­rivals set­tled around Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, some look­ing rather ex­cit­ed, oth­ers cu­ri­ous, Lu­na Love­good gaz­ing dream­ily in­to space. When ev­ery­body had pulled up a chair, the chat­ter died out. Ev­ery eye was up­on Har­ry.

'Er,' said Hermione, her voice slight­ly high­er than usu­al out of nerves. 'Well - er - hi.'

The group fo­cused its at­ten­tion on her in­stead, though eyes con­tin­ued to dart back reg­ular­ly to Har­ry.

'Well… erm… well, you know why you're here. Erm… well, Har­ry here had the idea - I mean' (Har­ry had thrown her a sharp look) 'I had the idea - that it might be good if peo­ple who want­ed to study De­fence Against the Dark Arts - and I mean, re­al­ly study it, you know, not the rub­bish that Um­bridge is do­ing with us -' (Hermione's voice be­came sud­den­ly much stronger and more con­fi­dent) '- be­cause no­body could call that De­fence Against the Dark Arts -' ('Hear, hear,' said An­tho­ny Gold­stein, and Hermione looked heart­ened) '- Well, I thought it would be good if we, well, took mat­ters in­to our own hands.'

She paused, looked side­ways at Har­ry, and went on, 'And by that I mean learn­ing how to de­fend our­selves prop­er­ly, not just in the­ory but do­ing the re­al spells -'

'You want to pass your De­fence Against the Dark Arts OWL too, though, I bet?' said Michael Cor­ner, who was watch­ing her close­ly.

'Of course I do,' said Hermione at once. 'But more than that, I want to be prop­er­ly trained in de­fence be­cause… be­cause…" she took a great breath and fin­ished, 'be­cause Lord Volde­mort is back.'

The re­ac­tion was im­me­di­ate and pre­dictable. Cho's friend shrieked and slopped But­ter­beer down her­self; Ter­ry Boot gave a kind of in­vol­un­tary twitch; Pad­ma Patil shud­dered, and Neville gave an odd yelp that he man­aged to turn in­to a cough. All of them, how­ev­er, looked fixed­ly, even ea­ger­ly, at Har­ry.

'Well… that's the plan, any­way' said Hermione. 'If you want to join us, we need to de­cide how we're go­ing to -'

'Where's the proof You-​Know-​Who's back?' said the blond Huf­flepuff play­er in a rather ag­gres­sive voice.

'Well, Dum­ble­dore be­lieves it -' Hermione be­gan.

'You mean, Dum­ble­dore be­lieves him,' said the blond boy, nod­ding at Har­ry.

'Who are you?' said Ron, rather rude­ly.

'Zacharias Smith,' said the boy, 'and I think we've got the right to know ex­act­ly what makes him say You-​Know-​Who's back.'

'Look,' said Hermione, in­ter­ven­ing swift­ly, 'that's re­al­ly not what this meet­ing was sup­posed to be about -'

'It's OK, Hermione,' said Har­ry.

It had just dawned on him why there were so many peo­ple there. He thought Hermione should have seen this com­ing. Some of these peo­ple - maybe even most of them - had turned up in the hopes of hear­ing Har­ry's sto­ry first­hand.

'What makes me say You-​Know-​Who's back?' he re­peat­ed, look­ing Zacharias straight in the face. 'I saw him. But Dum­ble­dore told the whole school what hap­pened last year, and if you didn't be­lieve him, you won't be­lieve me, and I'm not wast­ing an af­ter­noon try­ing to con­vince any­one.'

The whole group seemed to have held its breath while Har­ry spoke. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that even the bar­man was lis­ten­ing. He was wip­ing the same glass with the filthy rag, mak­ing it steadi­ly dirt­ier.

Zacharias said dis­mis­sive­ly, 'All Dum­ble­dore told us last year was that Cedric Dig­gory got killed by You-​Know-​Who and that you brought Dig­gory's body back to Hog­warts. He didn't give us de­tails, he didn't tell us ex­act­ly how Dig­gory got mur­dered, I think we'd all like to know -'

'If you've come to hear ex­act­ly what it looks like when Volde­mort mur­ders some­one I can't help you,' Har­ry said. His tem­per, al­ways so close to the sur­face these days, was ris­ing again. He did not take his eyes from Zacharias Smith's ag­gres­sive face, and was de­ter­mined not to look at Cho. 'I don't want to talk about Cedric Dig­gory, all right? So if that's what you're here for, you might as well clear out.'

He cast an an­gry look in Hermione's di­rec­tion. This was, he felt, all her fault; she had de­cid­ed to dis­play him like some sort of freak and of course they had all turned up to see just how wild his sto­ry was. But none of them left their seats, not even Zacharias Smith, though he con­tin­ued to gaze in­tent­ly at Har­ry.

'So,' said Hermione, her voice very high-​pitched again. 'So… like I was say­ing… if you want to learn some de­fence, then we need to work out how we're go­ing to do it, how of­ten we're go­ing to meet and where we're go­ing to -'

'Is it true,' in­ter­rupt­ed the girl with the long plait down her back, look­ing at Har­ry, 'that you can pro­duce a Pa­tronus?'

There was a mur­mur of in­ter­est around the group at this.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry slight­ly de­fen­sive­ly.

'A cor­po­re­al Pa­tronus?'

The phrase stirred some­thing in Har­ry's mem­ory.

'Er - you don't know Madam Bones, do you?' he asked.

The girl smiled.

'She's my aun­tie,' she said. 'I'm Su­san Bones. She told me about your hear­ing. So - is it re­al­ly true? You make a stag Pa­tronus?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry.

'Blimey, Har­ry!' said Lee, look­ing deeply im­pressed. 'I nev­er knew that!'

'Mum told Ron not to spread it around,' said Fred, grin­ning at Har­ry. 'She said you got enough at­ten­tion as it was.'

'She's not wrong,' mum­bled Har­ry, and a cou­ple of peo­ple laughed.

The veiled witch sit­ting alone shift­ed very slight­ly in her seat.

'And did you kill a Basilisk with that sword in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice?' de­mand­ed Ter­ry Boot. That's what one of the por­traits on the wall told me when I was in there last year…'

'Er - yeah, I did, yeah,' said Har­ry.

Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley whis­tled; the Creevey broth­ers ex­changed awestruck looks and Laven­der Brown said 'Wow!' soft­ly. Har­ry was feel­ing slight­ly hot around the col­lar now; he was de­ter­mined­ly look­ing any­where but at Cho.

'And in our first year,' said Neville to the group at large, 'he saved that Philo­log­ical Stone -'

'Philoso­pher's,' hissed Hermione.

'Yes, that - from You-​Know-​Who,' fin­ished Neville.

Han­nah Ab­bott's eyes were as round as Galleons.

'And that's not to men­tion,' said Cho (Har­ry's eyes snapped across to her; she was look­ing at him, smil­ing; his stom­ach did an­oth­er som­er­sault) 'all the tasks he had to get through in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment last year - get­ting past drag­ons and mer­peo­ple and Acro­man­tu­la and things…'

There was a mur­mur of im­pressed agree­ment around the ta­ble. Har­ry's in­sides were squirm­ing. He was try­ing to ar­range his face so that he did not look too pleased with him­self. The fact that Cho had just praised him made it much, much hard­er for him to say the thing he had sworn to him­self he would tell them.

'Look,' he said, and ev­ery­one fell silent at once, '1… I don't want to sound like I'm try­ing to be mod­est or any­thing, but… I had a lot of help with all that stuff…'

'Not with the drag­on, you didn't,' said Michael Cor­ner at once. That was a se­ri­ous­ly cool bit of fly­ing…'

'Yeah, well -' said Har­ry, feel­ing it would be churl­ish to dis­agree.

'And no­body helped you get rid of those De­men­tors this sum­mer,' said Su­san Bones.

'No,' said Har­ry, 'no, OK, I know I did bits of it with­out help, but the point I'm try­ing to make is -'

'Are you try­ing to weasel out of show­ing us any of this stuff?' said Zacharias Smith.

'Here's an idea,' said Ron loud­ly, be­fore Har­ry could speak, 'why don't you shut your mouth?'

Per­haps the word 'weasel' had af­fect­ed Ron par­tic­ular­ly strong­ly. In any case, he was now look­ing at Zacharias as though he would like noth­ing bet­ter than to thump him. Zacharias flushed.

'Well, we've all turned up to learn from him and now he's telling us he can't re­al­ly do any of it,' he said.

'That's not what he said, 'snarled Fred.

'Would you like us to clean out your ears for you?' en­quired George, pulling a long and lethal-​look­ing met­al in­stru­ment from in­side one of the Zonko's bags.

'Or any part of your body, re­al­ly, we're not fussy where we stick this,' said Fred.

'Yes, well,' said Hermione hasti­ly, 'mov­ing on… the point is, are we agreed we want to take lessons from Har­ry?'

There was a mur­mur of gen­er­al agree­ment. Zacharias fold­ed his arms and said noth­ing, though per­haps this was be­cause he was too busy keep­ing an eye on the in­stru­ment in Fred's hand.

'Right,' said Hermione, look­ing re­lieved that some­thing had at last been set­tled. 'Well, then, the next ques­tion is how of­ten we do it. I re­al­ly don't think there's any point in meet­ing less than once a week -'

'Hang on,' said An­geli­na, 'we need to make sure this doesn't clash with our Quid­ditch prac­tice.'

'No,' said Cho, 'nor with ours.'

'Nor ours,' added Zacharias Smith.

'I'm sure we can find a night that suits ev­ery­one,' said Hermione, slight­ly im­pa­tient­ly, 'but you know, this is rather im­por­tant, we're talk­ing about learn­ing to de­fend our­selves against V-​Volde­mort's Death Eaters -'

'Well said!' barked Ernie Macmil­lan, who Har­ry had been ex­pect­ing to speak long be­fore this. 'Per­son­al­ly I think this is re­al­ly im­por­tant, pos­si­bly more im­por­tant than any­thing else we'll do this year, even with our OWLs com­ing up!'

He looked around im­pres­sive­ly, as though wait­ing for peo­ple to cry 'Sure­ly not!' When no­body spoke, he went on, 'I, per­son­al­ly am at a loss to see why the Min­istry has foist­ed such a use­less teach­er on us at this crit­ical pe­ri­od. Ob­vi­ous­ly, they are in de­nial about the re­turn of You-​Know-​Who, but to give us a teach­er who is try­ing to ac­tive­ly pre­vent us from us­ing de­fen­sive spells -'

'We think the rea­son Um­bridge doesn't want us trained in De­fence Against the Dark Arts,' said Hermione, 'is that she's got some… some mad idea that Dum­ble­dore could use the stu­dents in the school as a kind of pri­vate army. She thinks he'd mo­bilise us against the Min­istry.'

Near­ly ev­ery­body looked stunned at this news; ev­ery­body ex­cept Lu­na Love­good, who piped up, 'Well, that makes sense. Af­ter all, Cor­nelius Fudge has got his own pri­vate army'

'What?' said Har­ry, com­plete­ly thrown by this un­ex­pect­ed piece of in­for­ma­tion.

'Yes, he's got an army of He­liopaths,' said Lu­na solemn­ly.

'No, he hasn't,' snapped Hermione.

'Yes, he has,' said Lu­na.

'What are He­liopaths?' asked Neville, look­ing blank.

They're spir­its of fire,' said Lu­na, her pro­tu­ber­ant eyes widen­ing so that she looked mad­der than ev­er, 'great tall flam­ing crea­tures that gal­lop across the ground burn­ing ev­ery­thing in front of -'

They don't ex­ist, Neville,' said Hermione tart­ly.

'Oh, yes, they do!' said Lu­na an­gri­ly.

'I'm sor­ry, but where's the proof of that?' snapped Hermione.

There are plen­ty of eye-​wit­ness ac­counts. Just be­cause you're so nar­row-​mind­ed you need to have ev­ery­thing shoved un­der your nose be­fore you -'

'Hem, hem,' said Gin­ny, in such a good im­ita­tion of Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge that sev­er­al peo­ple looked around in alarm and then laughed. 'Weren't we try­ing to de­cide how of­ten we're go­ing to meet and have de­fence lessons?'

'Yes,' said Hermione at once, 'yes, we were, you're right, Gin­ny.'

Well, once a week sounds cool,' said Lee Jor­dan.

'As long as -' be­gan An­geli­na.

'Yes, yes, we know about the Quid­ditch,' said Hermione in a tense voice. Well, the oth­er thing to de­cide is where we're go­ing to meet…'

This was rather more dif­fi­cult; the whole group fell silent.

'Li­brary?' sug­gest­ed Katie Bell af­ter a few mo­ments.

'1 can't see Madam Pince be­ing too chuffed with us do­ing jinx­es in the li­brary,' said Har­ry.

'Maybe an un­used class­room?' said Dean.

'Yeah,' said Ron, 'McG­ona­gall might let us have hers, she did when Har­ry was prac­tis­ing for the Tri­wiz­ard.'

But Har­ry was pret­ty cer­tain that McG­ona­gall would not be so ac­com­mo­dat­ing this time. For all that Hermione had said about study and home­work groups be­ing al­lowed, he had the dis­tinct feel­ing that this one might be con­sid­ered a lot more re­bel­lious.

'Right, well, we'll try to find some­where,' said Hermione. 'We'll send a mes­sage round to ev­ery­body when we've got a time and a place for the first meet­ing.'

She rum­maged in her bag and pro­duced parch­ment and a quill, then hes­itat­ed, rather as though she was steel­ing her­self to say some­thing.

'I - I think ev­ery­body should write their name down, just so we know who was here. But I al­so think,' she took a deep breath, 'that we all ought to agree not to shout about what we're do­ing. So if you sign, you're agree­ing not to tell Um­bridge or any­body else what we're up to.'

Fred reached out for the parch­ment and cheer­ful­ly wrote his sig­na­ture, but Har­ry no­ticed at once that sev­er­al peo­ple looked less than hap­py at the prospect of putting their names on the list.

'Er…' said Zacharias slow­ly, not tak­ing the parch­ment that George was try­ing to pass to him, 'well… I'm sure Ernie will tell me when the meet­ing is.'

But Ernie was look­ing rather hes­itant about sign­ing, too. Hermione raised her eye­brows at him.

'I - well, we are pre­fects,' Ernie burst out. 'And if this list was found… well, I mean to say… you said your­self, if Um­bridge finds out -'

'You just said this group was the most im­por­tant thing you'd do this year,' Har­ry re­mind­ed him.

'I - yes,' said Ernie, 'yes, I do be­lieve that, it's just -'

'Ernie, do you re­al­ly think I'd leave that list ly­ing around?' said Hermione testi­ly.

'No. No, of course not,' said Ernie, look­ing slight­ly less anx­ious. 'I - yes, of course I'll sign.'

No­body raised ob­jec­tions af­ter Ernie, though Har­ry saw Cho's friend give her a rather re­proach­ful look be­fore adding her own name. When the last per­scfri - Zacharias - had signed, Hermione took the parch­ment back and slipped it care­ful­ly in­to her bag. There was an odd feel­ing in the group now. It was as though they had just signed some kind of con­tract.

'Well, time's tick­ing on,' said Fred briskly, get­ting to his feet. 'George, Lee and I have got items of a sen­si­tive na­ture to pur­chase, we'll be see­ing you all lat­er.'

In twos and threes the rest of the group took their leave, too.

Cho made rather a busi­ness of fas­ten­ing the catch on her bag be­fore leav­ing, her long dark cur­tain of hair swing­ing for­wards to hide her face, but her friend stood be­side her, arms fold­ed, click­ing her tongue, so that Cho had lit­tle choice but to leave with her. As her friend ush­ered her through the door, Cho looked back and waved at Har­ry.

'Well, I think that went quite well,' said Hermione hap­pi­ly, as she, Har­ry and Ron walked out of the Hog's Head in­to the bright sun­light a few mo­ments lat­er. Har­ry and Ron were clutch­ing their bot­tles of But­ter­beer.

That Zacharias bloke's a wart,' said Ron, who was glow­er­ing af­ter the fig­ure of Smith, just dis­cernible in the dis­tance.

'I don't like him much, ei­ther,' ad­mit­ted Hermione, 'but he over­heard me talk­ing to Ernie and Han­nah at the Huf­flepuff ta­ble and he seemed re­al­ly in­ter­est­ed in com­ing, so what could I say? But the more peo­ple the bet­ter re­al­ly - I mean, Michael Cor­ner and his friends wouldn't have come if he hadn't been go­ing out with Gin­ny -'

Ron, who had been drain­ing the last few drops from his But­ter­beer bot­tle, gagged and sprayed But­ter­beer down his front.

'He's WHAT?' splut­tered Ron, out­raged, his ears now re­sem­bling curls of raw beef. 'She's go­ing out with - my sis­ter's go­ing - what d'you mean, Michael Cor­ner?'

'Well, that's why he and his friends came, I think - well, they're ob­vi­ous­ly in­ter­est­ed in learn­ing de­fence, but if Gin­ny hadn't told Michael what was go­ing on -'

When did this - when did she -?'

They met at the Yule Ball and got to­geth­er at the end of last year,' said Hermione com­pos­ed­ly. They had turned in­to the High Street and she paused out­side Scriven­shaft's Quill Shop, where there was a hand­some dis­play of pheas­ant feath­er quills in the win­dow. 'Hmm… I could do with a new quill.'

She turned in­to the shop. Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed her.

Which one was Michael Cor­ner?' Ron de­mand­ed fu­ri­ous­ly.

The dark one,' said Hermione.

'I didn't like him,' said Ron at once.

'Big sur­prise,' said Hermione un­der her breath.

'But,' said Ron, fol­low­ing Hermione along a row of quills in cop­per pots, '1 thought Gin­ny fan­cied Har­ry!'

Hermione looked at him rather pity­ing­ly and shook her head.

'Gin­ny used to fan­cy Har­ry, but she gave up on him months ago. Not that she doesn't like you, of course,' she added kind­ly to Har­ry while she ex­am­ined a long black and gold quill.

Har­ry, whose head was still full of Cho's part­ing wave, did not find this sub­ject quite as in­ter­est­ing as Ron, who was pos­itive­ly quiv­er­ing with in­dig­na­tion, but it did bring some­thing home to him that un­til now he had not re­al­ly reg­is­tered.

'So that's why she talks now?' he asked Hermione. 'She nev­er used to talk in front of me.'

'Ex­act­ly,' said Hermione. 'Yes, I think I'll have this one…'

She went up to the counter and hand­ed over fif­teen Sick­les and two Knuts, with Ron still breath­ing down her neck.

'Ron,' she said severe­ly as she turned and trod on his feet, 'this is ex­act­ly why Gin­ny hasn't told you she's see­ing Michael, she knew you'd take it bad­ly. So don't harp on about it, for heav­en's sake.'

'What d'you mean? Who's tak­ing any­thing bad­ly? I'm not go­ing to harp on about any­thing…' Ron con­tin­ued to chunter un­der his breath all the way down the street.

Hermione rolled her eyes at Har­ry and then said in an un­der­tone, while Ron was still mut­ter­ing im­pre­ca­tions about Michael Cor­ner, 'And talk­ing about Michael and Gin­ny… what about Cho and you?'

'What d'you mean?' said Har­ry quick­ly.

It was as though boil­ing wa­ter was ris­ing rapid­ly in­side him; a burn­ing sen­sa­tion that was caus­ing his face to smart in the cold -had he been that ob­vi­ous?

'Well,' said Hermione, smil­ing slight­ly, 'she just couldn't keep her eyes off you, could she?'

Har­ry had nev­er be­fore ap­pre­ci­at­ed just how beau­ti­ful the vil­lage of Hogsmeade was.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 17 - Educational Decree Number Twenty-four


Har­ry felt hap­pi­er for the rest of the week­end than he had done all term. He and Ron spent much of Sun­day catch­ing up with all their home­work again, and al­though this could hard­ly be called fun, the last burst of au­tumn sun­shine per­sist­ed, so rather than sit­ting hunched over ta­bles in the com­mon room they took their work out­side and lounged in the shade of a large beech tree on the edge of the lake. Hermione, who of course was up to date with all her work, brought more wool out­side with her and be­witched her knit­ting nee­dles so that they flashed and clicked in midair be­side her, pro­duc­ing more hats and scarves.

Know­ing they were do­ing some­thing to re­sist Um­bridge and the Min­istry, and that he was a key part of the re­bel­lion, gave Har­ry a feel­ing of im­mense sat­is­fac­tion. He kept re­liv­ing Sat­ur­days meet­ing in his mind: all those peo­ple, com­ing to him to learn De­fence Against the Dark Arts… and the looks on their faces as they had heard some of the things he had done… and Cho prais­ing his per­for­mance in the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment - know­ing all those peo­ple did not think him a ly­ing weirdo, but some­one to be ad­mired, buoyed him up so much that he was still cheer­ful on Mon­day morn­ing, de­spite the im­mi­nent prospect of all his least favourite class­es.

He and Ron head­ed down­stairs from their dor­mi­to­ry, dis­cussing An­geli­nas idea that they were to work on a new move called the Sloth Grip Roll dur­ing that night's Quid­ditch prac­tice, and not un­til they were halfway across the sun­lit com­mon room did they no­tice the ad­di­tion to the room that had al­ready at­tract­ed the at­ten­tion of a small group of peo­ple.

A large sign had been af­fixed to the Gryffind­or no­tice­board; so large it cov­ered ev­ery­thing else on it - the lists of sec­ond­hand spell­books for sale, the reg­ular re­minders of school rules from Ar­gus Filch, the Quid­ditch team train­ing timetable, the of­fers to barter cer­tain Choco­late Frog Cards for oth­ers, the Weasleys' lat­est ad­ver­tise­ment for testers, the dates of the Hogsmeade week­ends and the lost and found no­tices. The new sign was print­ed in large black let­ters and there was a high­ly of­fi­cial-​look­ing seal at the bot­tom be­side a neat and curly sig­na­ture.

BY OR­DER OF THE HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR OF HOG­WARTS

All stu­dent or­gan­isa­tions, so­ci­eties, teams, groups and dubs are hence­forth dis­band­ed.

An or­gan­isa­tion, so­ci­ety, team, group or club is here­by de­fined as a reg­ular meet­ing of three or more stu­dents.

Per­mis­sion to re-​form may be sought from the High In­quisi­tor (Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge).

No stu­dent or­gan­isa­tion, so­ci­ety, team, group or club may ex­ist with­out the knowl­edge and ap­proval of the High In­quisi­tor.

Any stu­dent found to have formed, or to be­long to, an or­gan­isa-​tion, so­ci­ety, team, group or club that has not been ap­proved by the High In­quisi­tor will be ex­pelled.

The above is in ac­cor­dance with Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​four.

Signed: Do­lores Jane Um­bridge, High In­quisi­tor

Har­ry and Ron read the no­tice over the heads of some anx­ious-​look­ing sec­ond-​years.

'Does this mean they're go­ing to shut down the Gob­stones Club?' one of them asked his friend.

'I reck­on you'll be OK with Gob­stones,' Ron said dark­ly, mak­ing the sec­ond-​year jump. 'I don't think we're go­ing to be as lucky, though, do you?' he asked Har­ry as the sec­ond-​years hur­ried away.

Har­ry was read­ing the no­tice through again. The hap­pi­ness that had filled him since Sat­ur­day was gone. His in­sides were puls­ing with rage.

This isn't a co­in­ci­dence,' he said, his hands form­ing fists. 'She knows.'

'She can't,' said Ron at once.

There were peo­ple lis­ten­ing in that pub. And let's face it, we don't know how many of the peo­ple who turned up we can trust… any of them could have run off and told Um­bridge…'

And he had thought they be­lieved him, thought they even ad­mired him…

'Zacharias Smith!' said Ron at once, punch­ing a fist in­to his hand. 'Or - I thought that Michael Cor­ner had a re­al­ly shifty look, too -'

'I won­der if Hermione's seen this yet?' Har­ry said, look­ing round at the door to the girls' dor­mi­to­ries.

'Let's go and tell her,' said Ron. He bound­ed for­wards, pulled open the door and set off up the spi­ral stair­case.

He was on the sixth stair when there was a loud, wail­ing, klax­on-​like sound and the steps melt­ed to­geth­er to make a long, smooth stone slide like a hel­ter-​skel­ter. There was a brief mo­ment when Ron tried to keep run­ning, arms work­ing mad­ly like wind­mills, then he top­pled over back­wards and shot down the new­ly cre­at­ed slide, com­ing to rest on his back at Har­ry's feet.

'Er - I don't think we're al­lowed in the girls' dor­mi­to­ries,' said Har­ry, pulling Ron to his feet and try­ing not to laugh.

Two fourth-​year girls came zoom­ing glee­ful­ly down the stone slide.

'Oooh, who tried to get up­stairs?' they gig­gled hap­pi­ly, leap­ing to their feet and ogling Har­ry and Ron.

'Me,' said Ron, who was still rather di­shev­elled. 'I didn't re­alise that would hap­pen. It's not fair!' he added to Har­ry, as the girls head­ed off for the por­trait hole, still gig­gling mad­ly. 'Hermione's al­lowed in our dor­mi­to­ry, how come we're not al­lowed -?'

'Well, it's an old-​fash­ioned rule,' said Hermione, who had just slid neat­ly on to a rug in front of them and was now get­ting to her feet, 'but it says in Hog­warts: A His­to­ry, that the founders thought boys were less trust­wor­thy than girls. Any­way, why were you try­ing to get in there?'

'To see you - look at this!' said Ron, drag­ging her over to the no­tice­board.

Hermione's eyes slid rapid­ly down the no­tice. Her ex­pres­sion be­came stony.

'Some­one must have blabbed to her!' Ron said an­gri­ly.

They can't have done,' said Hermione in a low voice.

'You're so naive,' said Ron, 'you think just be­cause you're all hon­ourable and trust­wor­thy -'

'No, they can't have done, be­cause I put a jinx on that piece of parch­ment we all signed,' said Hermione grim­ly. 'Be­lieve me, if any­one's run off and told Um­bridge, we'll know ex­act­ly who they are and they will re­al­ly re­gret it.'

'What'll hap­pen to them?' said Ron ea­ger­ly.

'Well, put it this way' said Hermione, 'it'll make Eloise Midgeon's ac­ne look like a cou­ple of cute freck­les. Come on, let's get down to break­fast and see what the oth­ers think… I won­der whether this has been put up in all the hous­es?'

It was im­me­di­ate­ly ap­par­ent on en­ter­ing the Great Hall that Um­bridge's sign had not on­ly ap­peared in Gryffind­or Tow­er. There was a pe­cu­liar in­ten­si­ty about the chat­ter and an ex­tra mea­sure of move­ment in the Hall as peo­ple scur­ried up and down their ta­bles con­fer­ring on what they had read. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had bare­ly tak­en their seats when Neville, Dean, Fred, George and Gin­ny de­scend­ed up­on them.

'Did you see it?'

'D'you reck­on she knows?'

'What are we go­ing to do?'

They were all look­ing at Har­ry. He glanced around to make sure there were no teach­ers near them.

'We're go­ing to do it any­way of course,' he said qui­et­ly.

'Knew you'd say that,' said George, beam­ing and thump­ing Har­ry on the arm.

The pre­fects as well?' said Fred, look­ing quizzi­cal­ly at Ron and Hermione.

'Of course,' said Hermione cool­ly.

'Here come Ernie and Han­nah Ab­bott,' said Ron, look­ing over his shoul­der. 'And those Raven­claw blokes and Smith… and no one looks very spot­ty.'

Hermione looked alarmed.

'Nev­er mind spots, the id­iots can't come over here now, it'll look re­al­ly sus­pi­cious - sit down!' she mouthed to Ernie and Han­nah, ges­tur­ing fran­ti­cal­ly to them to re­join the Huf­flepuff ta­ble. 'Lat­er! We'll - talk - to - you - lat­er!'

Til tell Michael,' said Gin­ny im­pa­tient­ly, swing­ing her­self off her bench, 'the fool, hon­est­ly…'

She hur­ried off to­wards the Raven­claw ta­ble; Har­ry watched her go. Cho was sit­ting not far away, talk­ing to the curly-​haired friend she had brought along to the Hog's Head. Would Um­bridge's no­tice scare her off meet­ing them again?

But the full reper­cus­sions of the sign were not felt un­til they were leav­ing the Great Hall for His­to­ry of Mag­ic.

'Har­ry! Ron/'

It was An­geli­na and she was hur­ry­ing to­wards them look­ing per­fect­ly des­per­ate.

'It's OK,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly, when she was near enough to hear him. 'We're still go­ing to -'

'You re­alise she's in­clud­ing Quid­ditch in this?' An­geli­na said over him. 'We have to go and ask per­mis­sion to re-​form the Gryffind­or team!'

'What?' said Har­ry.

'No way,' said Ron, ap­palled.

'You read the sign, it men­tions teams too! So lis­ten, Har­ry… I am say­ing this for the last time… please, please don't lose your tem­per with Um­bridge again or she might not let us play any more!'

'OK, OK,' said Har­ry, for An­geli­na looked as though she was on the verge of tears. 'Don't wor­ry, I'll be­have my­self…'

'Bet Um­bridge is in His­to­ry of Mag­ic,' said Ron grim­ly, as they set off for Binns's les­son. 'She hasn't in­spect­ed Binns yet… bet you any­thing she's there…'

But he was wrong; the on­ly teach­er present when they en­tered was Pro­fes­sor Binns, float­ing an inch or so above his chair as usu­al and prepar­ing to con­tin­ue his monotonous drone on gi­ant wars. Har­ry did not even at­tempt to fol­low what he was say­ing to­day; he doo­dled idly on his parch­ment ig­nor­ing Hermiones fre­quent glares and nudges, un­til a par­tic­ular­ly painful poke in the ribs made him look up an­gri­ly.

'What?'

She point­ed at the win­dow. Har­ry looked round. Hed­wig was perched on the nar­row win­dow ledge, gaz­ing through the thick glass at him, a let­ter tied to her leg. Har­ry could not un­der­stand it; they had just had break­fast, why on earth hadn't she de­liv­ered the let­ter then, as usu­al? Many of his class­mates were point­ing out Hed­wig to each oth­er, too.

'Oh, I've al­ways loved that owl, she's so beau­ti­ful,' Har­ry heard Laven­der sigh to Par­vati.

He glanced round at Pro­fes­sor Binns who con­tin­ued to read his notes, serene­ly un­aware that the class's at­ten­tion was even less fo­cused up­on him than usu­al. Har­ry slipped qui­et­ly off his chair, crouched down and hur­ried along the row to the win­dow, where he slid the catch and opened it very slow­ly.

He had ex­pect­ed Hed­wig to hold out her leg so that he could re­move the let­ter and then fly off to the Owlery but the mo­ment the win­dow was open wide enough she hopped in­side, hoot­ing dole­ful­ly. He closed the win­dow with an anx­ious glance at Pro­fes­sor Binns, crouched low again and sped back to his seat with Hed­wig on his shoul­der. He re­gained his seat, trans­ferred Hed­wig to his lap and made to re­move the let­ter tied to her leg.

On­ly then did he re­alise that Hed­wig's feath­ers were odd­ly ruf­fled; some were bent the wrong way, and she was hold­ing one of her wings at an odd an­gle.

'She's hurt!' Har­ry whis­pered, bend­ing his head low over her. Hermione and Ron leaned in clos­er; Hermione even put down her quill. 'Look - there's some­thing wrong with her wing -'

Hed­wig was quiv­er­ing; when Har­ry made to touch the wing she gave a lit­tle jump, all her feath­ers on end as though she was in­flat­ing her­self, and gazed at him re­proach­ful­ly.

'Pro­fes­sor Binns,' said Har­ry loud­ly, and ev­ery­one in the class turned to look at him. 'I'm not feel­ing well.'

Pro­fes­sor Binns raised his eyes from his notes, look­ing amazed, as al­ways, to find the room in front of him full of peo­ple.

'Not feel­ing well?' he re­peat­ed hazi­ly.

'Not at all well,' said Har­ry firm­ly get­ting to his feet with Hed­wig con­cealed be­hind his back. '1 think I need to go to the hos­pi­tal wing.'

'Yes,' said Pro­fes­sor Binns, clear­ly very much wrong-​foot­ed. 'Yes… yes, hos­pi­tal wing… well, off you go, then, Perkins…'

Once out­side the room, Har­ry re­turned Hed­wig to his shoul­der and hur­ried off up the cor­ri­dor, paus­ing to think on­ly when he was out of sight of Binns's door. His first choice of some­body to cure Hed­wig would have been Ha­grid, of course, but as he had no idea where Ha­grid was his on­ly re­main­ing op­tion was to find Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank and hope she would help.

He peered out of a win­dow at the blus­tery, over­cast grounds. There was no sign of her any­where near Ha­grid's cab­in; if she was not teach­ing, she was prob­ably in the staff room. He set off down­stairs, Hed­wig hoot­ing fee­bly as she swayed on his shoul­der.

Two stone gar­goyles flanked the staff-​room door. As Har­ry ap­proached, one of them croaked, 'You should be in class, Son­ny Jim.'

This is ur­gent,' said Har­ry curt­ly.

'Ooooh, ur­gent, is it?' said the oth­er gar­goyle in a high-​pitched voice. 'Well, that's put us in our place, hasn't it?'

Har­ry knocked. He heard foot­steps, then the door opened and he found him­self face to face with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'You haven't been giv­en an­oth­er de­ten­tion!' she said at once, her square spec­ta­cles flash­ing alarm­ing­ly.

'No, Pro­fes­sor!' said Har­ry hasti­ly.

'Well then, why are you out of class?'

'It's ur­gent, ap­par­ent­ly,' said the sec­ond gar­goyle snidery.

'I'm look­ing for Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank,' Har­ry ex­plained. 'It's my owl, she's in­jured.'

'In­jured owl, did you say?'

Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank ap­peared at Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's shoul­der, smok­ing a pipe and hold­ing a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet.

'Yes,' said Har­ry, lift­ing Hed­wig care­ful­ly off his shoul­der, 'she turned up af­ter the oth­er post owls and her wing's all fun­ny, look -'

Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank stuck her pipe firm­ly be­tween her teeth and took Hed­wig from Har­ry while Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall watched.

'Hmm,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank, her pipe wag­gling slight­ly as she talked. 'Looks like some­thing's at­tacked her. Can't think what would have done it, though. Thes­trals will some­times go for birds, of course, but Ha­grid's got the Hog­warts Thes­trals well-​trained not to touch owls.'

Har­ry nei­ther knew nor cared what Thes­trals were; he just want­ed to know that Hed­wig was go­ing to be all right. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, how­ev­er, looked sharply at Har­ry and said, 'Do you know how far this owl's trav­elled, Pot­ter?'

'Er,' said Har­ry. 'From Lon­don, I think.'

He met her eyes briefly and knew, by the way her eye­brows had joined in the mid­dle, that she un­der­stood 'Lon­don' to mean 'num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place'.

Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank pulled a mon­ocle out of the in­side of her robes and screwed it in­to her eye, to ex­am­ine Hed­wig's wing close­ly. 'I should be able to sort this out if you leave her with me, Pot­ter,' she said, 'she shouldn't be fly­ing long dis­tances for a few days, in any case.'

'Er - right - thanks,' said Har­ry, just as the bell rang for break.

'No prob­lem,' said Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank gruffly, turn­ing back in­to the staff room.

'Just a mo­ment, Wil­helmi­na!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. 'Pot­ters let­ter!'

'Oh yeah!' said Har­ry, who had mo­men­tar­ily for­got­ten the scroll tied to Hed­wig's leg. Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank hand­ed it over and then dis­ap­peared in­to the staff room car­ry­ing Hed­wig, who was star­ing at Har­ry as though un­able to be­lieve he would give her away like this. Feel­ing slight­ly guilty, he turned to go, but Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall called him back.

'Pot­ter!'

'Yes, Pro­fes­sor?'

She glanced up and down the cor­ri­dor; there were stu­dents com­ing from both di­rec­tions.

'Bear in mind,' she said quick­ly and qui­et­ly, her eyes on the scroll in his hand, 'that chan­nels of com­mu­ni­ca­tion in and out of Hog­warts may be be­ing watched, won't you?'

'I -' said Har­ry, but the flood of stu­dents rolling along the cor­ri­dor was al­most up­on him. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall gave him a curt nod and re­treat­ed in­to the staff room, leav­ing Har­ry to be swept out in­to the court­yard with the crowd. He spot­ted Ron and Hermione al­ready stand­ing in a shel­tered cor­ner, their cloak col­lars turned up against the wind. Har­ry slit open the scroll as he hur­ried to­wards them and found five words in Sir­ius's hand­writ­ing:

To­day, same time, same place.

'Is Hed­wig OK?' asked Hermione anx­ious­ly, the mo­ment he was with­in earshot.

'Where did you take her?' asked Ron.

To Grub­bly-​Plank,' said Har­ry. 'And I met McG­ona­gall… lis­ten…"

And he told them what Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had said. To his sur­prise, nei­ther of the oth­ers looked shocked. On the con­trary, they ex­changed sig­nif­icant looks.

'What?' said Har­ry, look­ing from Ron to Hermione and back again.

Well, I was just say­ing to Ron… what if some­one had tried to in­ter­cept Hed­wig? I mean, she's nev­er been hurt on a flight be­fore, has she?'

'Who's the let­ter from, any­way?' asked Ron, tak­ing the note from Har­ry.

'Snuf­fles,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

'“Same time, same place?” Does he mean the fire in the com­mon room?'

'Ob­vi­ous­ly,' said Hermione, al­so read­ing the note. She looked un­easy. 'I just hope no­body else has read this…'

'But it was still sealed and ev­ery­thing,' said Har­ry, try­ing to con­vince him­self as much as her. 'And no­body would un­der­stand what it meant if they didn't know where we'd spo­ken to him be­fore, would they?'

'I don't know,' said Hermione anx­ious­ly, hitch­ing her bag back over her shoul­der as the bell rang again, 'it wouldn't be ex­act­ly dif­fi­cult to re-​seal the scroll by mag­ic… and if any­one's watch­ing the Floo Net­work… but I don't re­al­ly see how we can warn him not to come with­out that be­ing in­ter­cept­ed, too!'

They trudged down the stone steps to the dun­geons for Po­tions, all three of them lost in thought, but as they reached the bot­tom of the steps they were re­called to them­selves by the voice of Dra­co Mal­foy who was stand­ing just out­side Snape's class­room door, wav­ing around an of­fi­cial-​look­ing piece of parch­ment and talk­ing much loud­er than was nec­es­sary so that they could hear ev­ery word.

'Yeah, Um­bridge gave the Slytherin Quid­ditch team per­mis­sion to con­tin­ue play­ing straight­away, I went to ask her first thing this morn­ing. Well, it was pret­ty much au­to­mat­ic, I mean, she knows my fa­ther re­al­ly well, he's al­ways pop­ping in and out of the Min­istry… it'll be in­ter­est­ing to see whether Gryffind­or are al­lowed to keep play­ing, won't it?'

'Don't rise,' Hermione whis­pered im­plor­ing­ly to Har­ry and Ron, who were both watch­ing Mal­foy, faces set and fists clenched. 'It's what he wants.'

'I mean,' said Mal­foy, rais­ing his voice a lit­tle more, his grey eyes glit­ter­ing malev­olent­ly in Har­ry and Ron's di­rec­tion, 'if it's a ques­tion of in­flu­ence with the Min­istry, I don't think they've got much chance… from what my fa­ther says, they've been look­ing for an ex­cuse to sack Arthur Weasley for years… and as for Pot­ter… my fa­ther says it's a mat­ter of time be­fore the Min­istry has him cart­ed off to St Mun­go's… ap­par­ent­ly they've got a spe­cial ward for peo­ple whose brains have been ad­dled by mag­ic.'

Mal­foy made a grotesque face, his mouth sag­ging open and his eyes rolling. Crabbe and Goyle gave their usu­al grunts of laugh­ter; Pan­sy Parkin­son shrieked with glee.

Some­thing col­lid­ed hard with Har­ry's shoul­der, knock­ing him side­ways. A split sec­ond lat­er he re­alised that Neville had just charged past him, head­ing straight for Mal­foy.

'Neville, no!'

Har­ry leapt for­ward and seized the back of Neville's robes; Neville strug­gled fran­ti­cal­ly, his fists flail­ing, try­ing des­per­ate­ly to get at Mal­foy who looked, for a mo­ment, ex­treme­ly shocked.

'Help me!' Har­ry flung at Ron, man­ag­ing to get an arm around Neville's neck and drag­ging him back­wards, away from the Slytherins. Crabbe and Goyle were flex­ing their arms as they stepped in front of Mal­foy, ready for the fight. Ron seized Neville's arms, and to­geth­er he and Har­ry suc­ceed­ed in drag­ging Neville back in­to the Gryffind­or line. Neville's face was scar­let; the pres­sure Har­ry was ex­ert­ing on his throat ren­dered him quite in­com­pre­hen­si­ble, but odd words splut­tered from his mouth.

'Not… fun­ny… don't… Mun­go's… show… him…'

The dun­geon door opened. Snape ap­peared there. His black eyes swept up the Gryffind­or line to the point where Har­ry and Ron were wrestling with Neville.

'Fight­ing, Pot­ter, Weasley, Long­bot­tom?' Snape said in his cold, sneer­ing voice. Ten points from Gryffind­or. Re­lease Long­bot­tom, Pot­ter, or it will be de­ten­tion. In­side, all of you.'

Har­ry let go of Neville, who stood pant­ing and glar­ing at him.

'I had to stop you,' Har­ry gasped, pick­ing up his bag. 'Crabbe and Goyle would've torn you apart.'

Neville said noth­ing; he mere­ly snatched up his own bag and stalked off in­to the dun­geon.

'What in the name of Mer­lin,' said Ron slow­ly, as they fol­lowed Neville, 'was that about?'

Har­ry did not an­swer. He knew ex­act­ly why the sub­ject of peo­ple who were in St Mun­go's be­cause of mag­ical dam­age to their brains was high­ly dis­tress­ing to Neville, but he had sworn to Dum­ble­dore that he would not tell any­one Neville's se­cret. Even Neville did not know Har­ry knew.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione took their usu­al seats at the back of the class, pulled out parch­ment, quills and their copies of One Thou­sand Mag­ical Herbs and Fun­gi. The class around them was whis­per­ing about what Neville had just done, but when Snape closed the dun­geon door with an echo­ing bang, ev­ery­body im­me­di­ate­ly fell silent.

'You will no­tice,' said Snape, in his low, sneer­ing voice, 'that we have a guest with us to­day.'

He ges­tured to­wards the dim cor­ner of the dun­geon and Har­ry saw Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sit­ting there, clip­board on her knee. He glanced side­ways at Ron and Hermione, his eye­brows raised. Snape and Um­bridge, the two teach­ers he hat­ed most. It was hard to de­cide which one he want­ed to tri­umph over the oth­er.

'We are con­tin­uing with our Strength­en­ing So­lu­tion to­day. You

i

will find your mix­tures as you left them last les­son; if cor­rect­ly made they should have ma­tured well over the week­end - in­struc­tions -' he waved his wand again '- on the board. Car­ry on.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge spent the first half hour of the les­son mak­ing notes in her cor­ner. Har­ry was very in­ter­est­ed in hear­ing her ques­tion Snape; so in­ter­est­ed, that he was be­com­ing care­less with his po­tion again.

'Sala­man­der blood, Har­ry !' Hermione moaned, grab­bing his wrist to pre­vent him adding the wrong in­gre­di­ent for the third time, 'not pomegranate juice!'

'Right,' said Har­ry vague­ly, putting down the bot­tle and con­tin­uing to watch the cor­ner. Um­bridge had just got to her feet. 'Ha,' he said soft­ly, as she strode be­tween two lines of desks to­wards Snape, who was bend­ing over Dean Thomas's caul­dron.

'Well, the class seem fair­ly ad­vanced for their lev­el,' she said briskly to Snape's back. Though I would ques­tion whether it is ad­vis­able to teach them a po­tion like the Strength­en­ing So­lu­tion. I think the Min­istry would pre­fer it if that was re­moved from the syl­labus.'

Snape straight­ened up slow­ly and turned to look at her.

'Now… how long have you been teach­ing at Hog­warts?' she asked, her quill poised over her clip­board.

'Four­teen years,' Snape replied. His ex­pres­sion was un­fath­omable. Har­ry, watch­ing him close­ly, added a few drops to his po­tion; it hissed men­ac­ing­ly and turned from turquoise to or­ange.

'You ap­plied first for the De­fence Against the Dark Arts post, I be­lieve?' Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge asked Snape.

'Yes,' said Snape qui­et­ly.

'But you were un­suc­cess­ful?'

Snape's lip curled.

'Ob­vi­ous­ly'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge scrib­bled on her clip­board.

'And you have ap­plied reg­ular­ly for the De­fence Against the Dark Arts post since you first joined the school, I be­lieve?'

'Yes,' said Snape qui­et­ly, bare­ly mov­ing his lips. He looked very an­gry.

'Do you have any idea why Dum­ble­dore has con­sis­tent­ly re­fused to ap­point you?' asked Um­bridge.

'I sug­gest you ask him,' said Snape jerk­ily. .?

'Oh, I shall,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, with a sweet smile.

'I sup­pose this is rel­evant?' Snape asked, his black eyes nar­rowed.

'Oh yes,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, 'yes, the Min­istry wants a thor­ough un­der­stand­ing of teach­ers' - er - back­grounds.'

She turned away, walked over to Pan­sy Parkin­son and be­gan ques­tion­ing her about the lessons. Snape looked round at Har­ry and their eyes met for a sec­ond. Har­ry hasti­ly dropped his gaze to his po­tion, which was now con­geal­ing foul­ly and giv­ing off a strong smell of burned rub­ber.

'No marks again, then, Pot­ter,' said Snape ma­li­cious­ly, emp­ty­ing Har­ry's caul­dron with a wave of his wand. 'You will write me an es­say on the cor­rect com­po­si­tion of this po­tion, in­di­cat­ing how and why you went wrong, to be hand­ed in next les­son, do you un­der­stand?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly. Snape had al­ready giv­en them home­work and he had Quid­ditch prac­tice this evening; this would mean an­oth­er cou­ple of sleep­less nights. It did not seem pos­si­ble that he had awo­ken that morn­ing feel­ing very hap­py. All he felt now was a fer­vent de­sire for this day to end.

'Maybe I'll skive off Div­ina­tion,' he said glum­ly, as they stood in the court­yard af­ter lunch, the wind whip­ping at the hems of robes and brims of hats. Til pre­tend to be ill and do Snape's es­say in­stead, then I won't have to stay up half the night.'

'You can't skive off Div­ina­tion,' said Hermione severe­ly.

'Hark who's talk­ing, you walked out of Div­ina­tion, you hate Trelawney!' said Ron in­dig­nant­ly.

'I don't hate her,' said Hermione lofti­ly. 'I just think she's an ab­so­lute­ly ap­palling teach­er and a re­al old fraud. But Har­rys al­ready missed His­to­ry of Mag­ic and I don't think he ought to miss any­thing else to­day!'

There was too much truth in this to ig­nore, so half an hour lat­er Har­ry took his seat in the hot, over­per­fumed at­mo­sphere of the Div­ina­tion class­room, feel­ing an­gry at ev­ery­body. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was yet again hand­ing out copies of The Dream Or­acle. Har­ry thought he'd sure­ly be much bet­ter em­ployed do­ing Snape's pun­ish­ment es­say than sit­ting here try­ing to find mean­ing in a lot of made-​up dreams.

It seemed, how­ev­er, that he was not the on­ly per­son in Div­ina­tion who was in a tem­per. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney slammed a copy of the Or­acle down on the ta­ble be­tween Har­ry and Ron and swept away, her lips pursed; she threw the next copy of the Or­acle at Sea­mus and Dean, nar­row­ly avoid­ing Sea­mus's head, and thrust the fi­nal one in­to Neville's chest with such force that he slipped off his pouffe.

'Well, car­ry on!' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney loud­ly, her voice high-​pitched and some­what hys­ter­ical, 'you know what to do! Or am I such a sub-​stan­dard teach­er that you have nev­er learned how to open a book?'

The class stared per­plexed­ly at her, then at each oth­er. Har­ry, how­ev­er, thought he knew what was the mat­ter. As Pro­fes­sor Trelawney flounced back to the high-​backed teach­er's chair, her mag­ni­fied eyes full of an­gry tears, he leaned his head clos­er to Ron's and mut­tered, 'I think she's got the re­sults of her in­spec­tion back.'

'Pro­fes­sor?' said Par­vati Patil in a hushed voice (she and Laven­der had al­ways rather ad­mired Pro­fes­sor Trelawney). 'Pro­fes­sor, is there any­thing - er - wrong?'

'Wrong!' cried Pro­fes­sor Trelawney in a voice throb­bing with emo­tion. 'Cer­tain­ly not! I have been in­sult­ed, cer­tain­ly… in­sin­ua­tions have been made against me… un­found­ed ac­cu­sa­tions lev­elled… but no, there is noth­ing wrong, cer­tain­ly not!'

She took a great shud­der­ing breath and looked away from Par­vati, an­gry tears spilling from un­der her glass­es.

'I say noth­ing,' she choked, 'of six­teen years of de­vot­ed ser­vice… it has passed, ap­par­ent­ly, un­no­ticed… but I shall not be in­sult­ed, no, I shall not!'

'But, Pro­fes­sor, who's in­sult­ing you?' asked Par­vati timid­ly.

The Es­tab­lish­ment!' said Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, in a deep, dra­mat­ic, wa­ver­ing voice. 'Yes, those with eyes too cloud­ed by the mun­dane to See as I See, to Know as I Know… of course, we Seers have al­ways been feared, al­ways per­se­cut­ed… it is - alas -our fate.'

She gulped, dabbed at her wet cheeks with the end of her shawl, then she pulled a small em­broi­dered hand­ker­chief from her sleeve, and blew her nose very hard with a sound like Peeves blow­ing a rasp­ber­ry.

Ron snig­gered. Laven­der shot him a dis­gust­ed look.

'Pro­fes­sor,' said Par­vati, 'do you mean… is it some­thing Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge -?'

'Do not speak to me about that wom­an!' cried Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, leap­ing to her feet, her beads rat­tling and her spec­ta­cles flash­ing. 'Kind­ly con­tin­ue with your work!'

And she spent the rest of the les­son strid­ing among them, tears still leak­ing from be­hind her glass­es, mut­ter­ing what sound­ed like threats un­der her breath.

'… may well choose to leave… the in­dig­ni­ty of it… on pro­ba­tion… we shall see… how she dares…'

'You and Um­bridge have got some­thing in com­mon,' Har­ry told Hermione qui­et­ly when they met again in De­fence Against the Dark Arts. 'She ob­vi­ous­ly reck­ons Trelawney's an old fraud, too… looks like she's put her on pro­ba­tion.'

Um­bridge en­tered the room as he spoke, wear­ing her black vel­vet bow and an ex­pres­sion of great smug­ness.

'Good af­ter­noon, class.'

'Good af­ter­noon, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge,' they chant­ed dul­ly.

'Wands away, please.'

But there was no an­swer­ing flur­ry of move­ment this time; no­body had both­ered to take out their wands.

'Please turn to page thir­ty-​four of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory and read the third chap­ter, en­ti­tled “The Case for Non-​Of­fen­sive Re­spons­es to Mag­ical At­tack”. There will be -'

'- no need to talk,' Har­ry, Ron and Hermione said to­geth­er, un­der their breaths.

*

'No Quid­ditch prac­tice,' said An­geli­na in hol­low tones when Har­ry, Ron and Hermione en­tered the com­mon room af­ter din­ner that night.

'But I kept my tem­per!' said Har­ry, hor­ri­fied. 'I didn't say any­thing to her, An­geli­na, I swear, I -'

'I know, I know,' said An­geli­na mis­er­ably. 'She just said she need­ed a bit of time to con­sid­er.'

'Con­sid­er what?' said Ron an­gri­ly. 'She's giv­en the Slytherins per­mis­sion, why not us?'

But Har­ry could imag­ine how much Um­bridge was en­joy­ing hold­ing the threat of no Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team over their heads and could eas­ily un­der­stand why she would not want to re­lin­quish that weapon over them too soon.

'Well,' said Hermione, 'look on the bright side - at least now you'll have time to do Snape's es­say!'

That's a bright side, is it?' snapped Har­ry, while Ron stared in­cred­ulous­ly at Hermione. 'No Quid­ditch prac­tice, and ex­tra Po­tions?'

Har­ry slumped down in­to a chair, dragged his Po­tions es­say re­luc­tant­ly from his bag and set to work. It was very hard to con­cen­trate; even though he knew Sir­ius was not due in the fire un­til much lat­er, he could not help glanc­ing in­to the flames ev­ery few min­utes just in case. There was al­so an in­cred­ible amount of noise in the room: Fred and George ap­peared fi­nal­ly to have per­fect­ed one type of Skiv­ing Snack­box, which they were tak­ing turns to demon­strate to a cheer­ing and whoop­ing crowd.

First, Fred would take a bite out of the or­ange end of a chew, at which he would vom­it spec­tac­ular­ly in­to a buck­et they had placed in front of them. Then he would force down the pur­ple end of the chew, at which the vom­it­ing would im­me­di­ate­ly cease. Lee Jor­dan, who was as­sist­ing the demon­stra­tion, was lazi­ly Van­ish­ing the vom­it at reg­ular in­ter­vals with the same Van­ish­ing Spell Snape kept us­ing on Har­rys po­tions.

What with the reg­ular sounds of retch­ing, cheer­ing and the sound of Fred and George tak­ing ad­vance or­ders from the crowd, Har­ry was find­ing it ex­cep­tion­al­ly dif­fi­cult to fo­cus on the cor­rect method for Strength­en­ing So­lu­tion. Hermione was not help­ing mat­ters; the cheers and the sound of vom­it hit­ting the bot­tom of Fred and George's buck­et were punc­tu­at­ed by her loud and dis­ap­prov­ing sniffs, which Har­ry found, if any­thing, more dis­tract­ing.

'Just go and stop them, then!' he said ir­ri­ta­bly, af­ter cross­ing out the wrong weight of pow­dered grif­fin claw for the fourth time.

'I can't, they're not tech­ni­cal­ly do­ing any­thing wrong,' said Hermione through grit­ted teeth. They're quite with­in their rights to eat the foul things them­selves and I can't find a rule that says the oth­er id­iots aren't en­ti­tled to buy them, not un­less they're proven to be dan­ger­ous in some way and it doesn't look as though they are.'

She, Har­ry and Ron watched George pro­jec­tile-​vom­it in­to the buck­et, gulp down the rest of the chew and straight­en up, beam­ing with his arms wide to pro­tract­ed ap­plause.

'You know, I don't get why Fred and George on­ly got three OWLs each,' said Har­ry, watch­ing as Fred, George and Lee col­lect­ed gold from the ea­ger crowd. They re­al­ly know their stuff.'

'Oh, they on­ly know flashy stuff that's of no re­al use to any­one,' said Hermione dis­parag­ing­ly.

'No re­al use?' said Ron in a strained voice. 'Hermione, they've made about twen­ty-​six Galleons al­ready.'

It was a long while be­fore the crowd around the Weasley twins dis­persed, then Fred, Lee and George sat up count­ing their tak­ings even longer, so it was well past mid­night when Har­ry, Ron and Hermione fi­nal­ly had the com­mon room to them­selves. At long last, Fred had closed the door­way to the boys' dor­mi­to­ries be­hind him, rat­tling his box of Galleons os­ten­ta­tious­ly so that Hermione scowled. Har­ry, who was mak­ing very lit­tle progress with his Po­tions es­say, de­cid­ed to give it up for the night. As he put his books away, Ron, who was doz­ing light­ly in an arm­chair, gave a muf­fled grunt, awoke, and looked bleari­ly in­to the fire.

'Sir­ius!' he said.

Har­ry whipped round. Sir­iuss un­tidy dark head was sit­ting in the fire again.

'Hi,' he said, grin­ning.

'Hi,' cho­rused Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, all three kneel­ing down on the hearthrug. Crook­shanks purred loud­ly and ap­proached the fire, try­ing, de­spite the heat, to put his face close to Sir­ius's.

'How're things?' said Sir­ius.

'Not that good,' said Har­ry, as Hermione pulled Crook­shanks back to stop him singe­ing his whiskers. The Min­istry's forced through an­oth­er de­cree, which means we're not al­lowed to have Quid­ditch teams -'

I

'Or se­cret De­fence Against the Dark Arts groups?' said Sir­ius.

There was a short pause.

'How did you know about that?' Har­ry de­mand­ed.

'You want to choose your meet­ing places more care­ful­ly,' said Sir­ius, grin­ning still more broad­ly. The Hog's Head, I ask you.'

'Well, it was bet­ter than the Three Broom­sticks!' said Hermione de­fen­sive­ly. That's al­ways packed with peo­ple -'

'Which means you'd have been hard­er to over­hear,' said Sir­ius. 'You've got a lot to learn, Hermione.'

'Who over­heard us?' Har­ry de­mand­ed.

'Mundun­gus, of course,' said Sir­ius, and when they all looked puz­zled he laughed. 'He was the witch un­der the veil.'

That was Mundun­gus?' Har­ry said, stunned. 'What was he do­ing in the Hog's Head?'

What do you think he was do­ing?' said Sir­ius im­pa­tient­ly. 'Keep­ing an eye on you, of course.'

'I'm still be­ing fol­lowed?' asked Har­ry an­gri­ly.

'Yeah, you are,' said Sir­ius, 'and just as well, isn't it, if the first thing you're go­ing to do on your week­end off is or­gan­ise an il­le­gal de­fence group.'

But he looked nei­ther an­gry nor wor­ried. On the con­trary, he was look­ing at Har­ry with dis­tinct pride.

'Why was Dung hid­ing from us?' asked Ron, sound­ing dis­ap­point­ed. 'We'd've liked to've seen him.'

'He was banned from the Hog's Head twen­ty years ago,' said Sir­ius, 'and that bar­man's got a long mem­ory. We lost Moody's spare In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak when Stur­gis was ar­rest­ed, so Dung's been dress­ing as a witch a lot late­ly… any­way… first of all, Ron - I've sworn to pass on a mes­sage from your moth­er.'

'Oh yeah?' said Ron, sound­ing ap­pre­hen­sive.

'She says on no ac­count what­so­ev­er are you to take part in an il­le­gal se­cret De­fence Against the Dark Arts group. She says you'll be ex­pelled for sure and your fu­ture will be ru­ined. She says there will be plen­ty of time to learn how to de­fend your­self lat­er and that you are too young to be wor­ry­ing about that right now. She al­so' (Sir­ius's eyes turned to the oth­er two) 'ad­vis­es Har­ry and Hermione not to pro­ceed with the group, though she ac­cepts that she has no au­thor­ity over ei­ther of them and sim­ply begs them to re­mem­ber that she has their best in­ter­ests at heart. She would have writ­ten all this to you, but if the owl had been in­ter­cept­ed you'd all have been in re­al trou­ble, and she can't say it for her­self be­cause she's on du­ty tonight.'

'On du­ty do­ing what?' said Ron quick­ly.

'Nev­er you mind, just stuff for the Or­der,' said Sir­ius. 'So it's fall­en to me to be the mes­sen­ger and make sure you tell her I passed it all on, be­cause I don't think she trusts me to.'

There was an­oth­er pause in which Crook­shanks, mew­ing, at­tempt­ed to paw Sir­ius's head, and Ron fid­dled with a hole in the hearthrug.

'So, you want me to say I'm not go­ing to take part in the De­fence group?' he mut­tered fi­nal­ly.

'Me? Cer­tain­ly not!' said Sir­ius, look­ing sur­prised. 'I think it's an ex­cel­lent idea!'

'You do?' said Har­ry, his heart lift­ing.

'Of course I do!' said Sir­ius. 'D'you think your fa­ther and I would've lain down and tak­en or­ders from an old hag like Um­bridge?'

'But - last term all you did was tell me to be care­ful and not take risks -'

'Last year, all the ev­idence was that some­one in­side Hog­warts was try­ing to kill you, Har­ry!' said Sir­ius im­pa­tient­ly. This year, we know there's some­one out­side Hog­warts who'd like to kill us all, so I think learn­ing to de­fend your­selves prop­er­ly is a very good idea!'

'And if we do get ex­pelled?' Hermione asked, a quizzi­cal look on her face.

'Hermione, this whole thing was your idea!' said Har­ry, star­ing at her.

'I know it was. I just won­dered what Sir­ius thought,' she said, shrug­ging.

'Well, bet­ter ex­pelled and able to de­fend your­selves than sit­ting safe­ly in school with­out a clue,' said Sir­ius.

'Hear, hear,' said Har­ry and Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

'So,' said Sir­ius, 'how are you or­gan­is­ing this group? Where are you meet­ing?'

'Well, that's a bit of a prob­lem now,' said Har­ry. 'Dun­no where we're go­ing to be able to go.'

'How about the Shriek­ing Shack?' sug­gest­ed Sir­ius.

'Hey, that's an idea!' said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, but Hermione made a scep­ti­cal noise and all three of them looked at her, Sir­iuss head turn­ing in the flames.

'Well, Sir­ius, it's just that there were on­ly four of you meet­ing in the Shriek­ing Shack when you were at school,' said Hermione, 'and all of you could trans­form in­to an­imals and I sup­pose you could all have squeezed un­der a sin­gle In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak if you'd want­ed to. But there are twen­ty-​eight of us and none of us is an An­ima­gus, so we wouldn't need so much an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak as an In­vis­ibil­ity Mar­quee -'

'Fair point,' said Sir­ius, look­ing slight­ly crest­fall­en. 'Well, I'm sure you'll come up with some­where. There used to be a pret­ty roomy se­cret pas­sage­way be­hind that big mir­ror on the fourth floor, you might have enough space to prac­tise jinx­es in there.'

'Fred and George told me it's blocked,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head. 'Caved in or some­thing.'

'Oh…' said Sir­ius, frown­ing. 'Well, I'll have a think and get back to -'

He broke off. His face was sud­den­ly tense, alarmed. He turned side­ways, ap­par­ent­ly look­ing in­to the sol­id brick wall of the fire­place.

'Sir­ius?' said Har­ry anx­ious­ly.

But he had van­ished. Har­ry gaped at the flames for a mo­ment, then turned to look at Ron and Hermione.

Why did he -?'

Hermione gave a hor­ri­fied gasp and leapt to her feet, still star­ing at the fire.

A hand had ap­peared amongst the flames, grop­ing as though to catch hold of some­thing; a stub­by, short-​fin­gered hand cov­ered in ug­ly old-​fash­ioned rings.

The three of them ran for it. At the door of the boys' dor­mi­to­ry Har­ry looked back. Um­bridge's hand was still mak­ing snatch­ing move­ments amongst the flames, as though she knew ex­act­ly where Sir­iuss hair had been mo­ments be­fore and was de­ter­mined to seize it.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 18 - Dumbledore's Army


'Um­bridge has been read­ing your mail, Har­ry. There's no oth­er ex­pla­na­tion.'

'You think Um­bridge at­tacked Hed­wig?' he said, out­raged.

'I'm al­most cer­tain of it,' said Hermione grim­ly. 'Watch your frog, it's es­cap­ing.'

Har­ry point­ed his wand at the bull­frog that had been hop­ping hope­ful­ly to­wards the oth­er side of the ta­ble - 'Ac­cio!' - and it zoomed gloomi­ly back in­to his hand.

Charms was al­ways one of the best lessons in which to en­joy a pri­vate chat; there was gen­er­al­ly so much move­ment and ac­tiv­ity that the dan­ger of be­ing over­heard was very slight. To­day, with the room full of croak­ing bull­frogs and caw­ing ravens, and with a heavy down­pour of rain clat­ter­ing and pound­ing against the class­room win­dows, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione's whis­pered dis­cus­sion about how Um­bridge had near­ly caught Sir­ius went quite un­no­ticed.

'I've been sus­pect­ing this ev­er since Filch ac­cused you of or­der­ing Dung­bombs, be­cause it seemed such a stupid lie,' Hermione whis­pered. 'I mean, once your let­ter had been read it would have been quite clear you weren't or­der­ing them, so you wouldn't have been in trou­ble at all - it's a bit of a fee­ble joke, isn't it? But then I thought, what if some­body just want­ed an ex­cuse to read your mail? Well then, it would be a per­fect way for Um­bridge to man­age it - tip off Filch, let him do the dirty work and con­fis­cate the let­ter, then ei­ther find a way of steal­ing it from him or else de­mand to see it - I don't think Filch would ob­ject, when's he ev­er stuck up for a stu­dent's rights? Har­ry, you're squash­ing your frog.'

r

Har­ry looked down; he was in­deed squeez­ing his bull­frog so tight­ly its eyes were pop­ping; he re­placed it hasti­ly up­on the desk.

'It was a very, very close call last night,' said Hermione. 'I just won­der if Um­bridge knows how close it was. Si­len­cio.'

The bull­frog on which she was prac­tis­ing her Si­lenc­ing Charm was struck dumb mid-​croak and glared at her re­proach­ful­ly.

'If she'd caught Snuf­fles -'

Har­ry fin­ished the sen­tence for her.

'- He'd prob­ably be back in Azk­aban this morn­ing.' He waved his wand with­out re­al­ly con­cen­trat­ing; his bull­frog swelled like a green bal­loon and emit­ted a high-​pitched whis­tle.

'Si­len­cio!' said Hermione hasti­ly, point­ing her wand at Har­ry's frog, which de­flat­ed silent­ly be­fore them. 'Well, he mustn't do it again, that's all. I just don't know how we're go­ing to let him know. We can't send him an owl.'

'I don't reck­on he'll risk it again,' said Ron. 'He's not stupid, he knows she near­ly got him. Si­len­cio.'

The large and ug­ly raven in front of him let out a de­ri­sive caw.

'Si­len­cio. SI­LEN­CIO!'

The raven cawed more loud­ly.

'Its the way you're mov­ing your wand,' said Hermione, watch­ing Ron crit­ical­ly, 'you don't want to wave it, it's more a sharp jab.'

'Ravens are hard­er than frogs,' said Ron through clenched teeth.

'Fine, let's swap,' said Hermione, seiz­ing Rons raven and re­plac­ing it with her own fat bull­frog. 'Si­len­cio!' The raven con­tin­ued to open and close its sharp beak, but no sound came out.

'Very good, Miss Granger!' said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's squeaky lit­tle voice, mak­ing Har­ry, Ron and Hermione all jump. 'Now, let me see you try, Mr Weasley.'

'Wha—? Oh - oh, right,' said Ron, very flus­tered. 'Er - silen­do!'

He jabbed at the bull­frog so hard he poked it in the eye: the frog gave a deaf­en­ing croak and leapt off the desk.

It came as no sur­prise to any of them that Har­ry and Ron were giv­en ad­di­tion­al prac­tice of the Si­lenc­ing Charm for home­work.

They were al­lowed to re­main in­side over break due to the down­pour out­side. They found seats in a noisy and over­crowd­ed class­room on the first floor in which Peeves was float­ing dream­ily up near the chan­de­lier, oc­ca­sion­al­ly blow­ing an ink pel­let at the top of some­body's head. They had bare­ly sat down when An­geli­na came strug­gling to­wards them through the groups of gos­sip­ing stu­dents.

'I've got per­mis­sion!' she said. To re-​form the Quid­ditch team!'

'Ex­cel­lent!' said Ron and Har­ry to­geth­er.

'Yeah,' said An­geli­na, beam­ing. 'I went to McG­ona­gall and I think she might have ap­pealed to Dum­ble­dore. Any­way, Um­bridge had to give in. Ha! So I want you down at the pitch at sev­en o'clock tonight, all right, be­cause we've got to make up time. You re­alise we're on­ly three weeks away from our first match?'

She squeezed away from them, nar­row­ly dodged an ink pel­let from Peeves, which hit a near­by first-​year in­stead, and van­ished from sight.

Ron's smile slipped slight­ly as he looked out of the win­dow, which was now opaque with ham­mer­ing rain.

'Hope this clears up. What's up with you, Hermione?'

She, too, was gaz­ing at the win­dow, but not as though she re­al­ly saw it. Her eyes were un­fo­cused and there was a frown on her face.

'Just think­ing…' she said, still frown­ing at the rain-​washed win­dow.

'About Siri— Snuf­fles?' said Har­ry.

'No… not ex­act­ly…' said Hermione slow­ly. 'More… won­der­ing… I sup­pose we're do­ing the right thing… I think… aren't we?'

Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er.

'Well, that clears that up,' said Ron. 'It would've been re­al­ly an­noy­ing if you hadn't ex­plained your­self prop­er­ly.'

Hermione looked at him as though she had on­ly just re­alised he was there.

'I was just won­der­ing,' she said, her voice stronger now, 'whether we're do­ing the right thing, start­ing this De­fence Against the Dark Arts group.'

'What?' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

'Hermione, it was your idea in the first place!' said Ron in­dig­nant­ly.

'I know,' said Hermione, twist­ing her fin­gers to­geth­er. 'But af­ter talk­ing to Snuf­fles…'

'But he's all for it,' said Har­ry.

'Yes,' said Hermione, star­ing at the win­dow again. 'Yes, that's what made me think maybe it wasn't a good idea af­ter all…'

Peeves float­ed over them on his stom­ach, peashoot­er at the ready; au­to­mat­ical­ly all three of them lift­ed their bags to cov­er their heads un­til he had passed.

'Let's get this straight,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly, as they put their bags back on the floor, 'Sir­ius agrees with us, so you don't think we should do it any more?'

Hermione looked tense and rather mis­er­able. Now star­ing at her own hands, she said, 'Do you hon­est­ly trust his judge­ment?'

'Yes, I do!' said Har­ry at once. 'He's al­ways giv­en us great ad­vice!'

An ink pel­let whizzed past them, strik­ing Katie Bell square­ly in the ear. Hermione watched Katie leap to her feet and start throw­ing things at Peeves; it was a few mo­ments be­fore Hermione spoke again and it sound­ed as though she was choos­ing her words very care­ful­ly.

'You don't think he has be­come… sort of… reck­less… since he's been cooped up in Grim­mauld Place? You don't think he's… kind of… liv­ing through us?'

'What d'you mean, “liv­ing through us”?' Har­ry re­tort­ed.

'I mean… well, I think he'd love to be form­ing se­cret De­fence so­ci­eties right un­der the nose of some­one from the Min­istry… I think he's re­al­ly frus­trat­ed at how lit­tle he can do where he is… so I think he's keen to kind of… egg us on.'

Ron looked ut­ter­ly per­plexed.

'Sir­ius is right,' he said, 'you do sound just like my moth­er.'

Hermione bit her lip and did not an­swer. The bell rang just as Peeves swooped down on Katie and emp­tied an en­tire ink bot­tle over her head.

*

The weath­er did not im­prove as the day wore on, so that at sev­en

^o'clock that evening, when Har­ry and Ron went down to the

^uid­ditch pitch for prac­tice, they were soaked through with­in min-​ates, their feet slip­ping and slid­ing on the sod­den grass. The sky

pwas a deep, thun­dery grey and it was a re­lief to gain the warmth and light of the chang­ing rooms, even if they knew the respite was on­ly tem­po­rary. They found Fred and George de­bat­ing whether to use one of their own Skiv­ing Snack­box­es to get out of fly­ing.

'… but I bet she'd know what we'd done,' Fred said out of the cor­ner of his mouth. 'If on­ly I hadn't of­fered to sell her some Puk­ing Pastilles yes­ter­day.'

'We could try the Fever Fudge,' George mut­tered, 'no one's seen that yet -'

'Does it work?' en­quired Ron hope­ful­ly, as the ham­mer­ing of rain on the roof in­ten­si­fied and wind howled around the build­ing.

'Well, yeah,' said Fred, 'your tem­per­ature'll go right up.'

'But you get these mas­sive pus-​filled boils, too,' said George, 'and we haven't worked out how to get rid of them yet.'

'I can't see any boils,' said Ron, star­ing at the twins.

'No, well, you wouldn't,' said Fred dark­ly, 'they're not in a place we gen­er­al­ly dis­play to the pub­lic.'

'But they make sit­ting on a broom a right pain in the -'

'All right, ev­ery­one, lis­ten up,' said An­geli­na loud­ly, emerg­ing from the Cap­tain's of­fice. 'I know it's not ide­al weath­er, but there's a chance we'll be play­ing Slytherin in con­di­tions like this so it's a good idea to work out how we're go­ing to cope with them. Har­ry, didn't you do some­thing to your glass­es to stop the rain fog­ging them up when we played Huf­flepuff in that storm?'

'Hermione did it,' said Har­ry. He pulled out his wand, tapped his glass­es and said, 'Im­per­vius!'

'I think we all ought to try that,' said An­geli­na. 'If we could just keep the rain off our faces it would re­al­ly help vis­ibil­ity - all to­geth­er, come on - Im­per­vius! OK. Let's go.'

They all stowed their wands back in the in­side pock­ets of their robes, shoul­dered their brooms and fol­lowed An­geli­na out of the chang­ing rooms.

They squelched through the deep­en­ing mud to the mid­dle of the pitch; vis­ibil­ity was still very poor even with the Im­per­vius Charm; light was fad­ing fast and cur­tains of rain were sweep­ing the grounds.

'All right, on my whis­tle,' shout­ed An­geli­na.

Har­ry kicked off from the ground, spray­ing mud in all di­rec­tions, and shot up­wards, the wind pulling him slight­ly off course.

He had no idea how he was go­ing to see the Snitch in this weath­er; he was hav­ing enough dif­fi­cul­ty see­ing the one Bludger with which they were prac­tis­ing; a minute in­to the prac­tice it al­most un­seat­ed him and he had to use the Sloth Grip Roll to avoid it. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, An­geli­na did not see this. In fact, she did not ap­pear to be able to see any­thing; none of them had a clue what the oth­ers were do­ing. The wind was pick­ing up; even at a dis­tance Har­ry could hear the swish­ing, pound­ing sounds of the rain pum­melling the sur­face of the lake.

An­geli­na kept them at it for near­ly an hour be­fore con­ced­ing de­feat. She led her sod­den and dis­grun­tled team back in­to the chang­ing rooms, in­sist­ing that the prac­tice had not been a waste of time, though with­out any re­al con­vic­tion in her voice. Fred and George were look­ing par­tic­ular­ly an­noyed; both were bandy-​legged and winced with ev­ery move­ment. Har­ry could hear them com­plain­ing in low voic­es as he tow­elled his hair dry.

'I think a few of mine have rup­tured,' said Fred in a hol­low voice.

'Mine haven't,' said George, through clenched teeth, 'they're throb­bing like mad… feel big­ger if any­thing.'

'OUCH!' said Har­ry.

He pressed the tow­el to his face, his eyes screwed tight with pain. The scar on his fore­head had seared again, more painful­ly than it had in weeks.

'What's up?' said sev­er­al voic­es.

Har­ry emerged from be­hind his tow­el; the chang­ing room was blurred be­cause he was not wear­ing his glass­es, but he could still tell that ev­ery­one's face was turned to­wards him.

'Noth­ing,' he mut­tered, 'I - poked my­self in the eye, that's all.'

But he gave Ron a sig­nif­icant look and the two of them hung back as the rest of the team filed back out­side, muf­fled in their cloaks, their hats pulled low over their ears.

'What hap­pened?' said Ron, the mo­ment Ali­cia had dis­ap­peared through the door. 'Was it your scar?'

Har­ry nod­ded.

'But…' look­ing scared, Ron strode across to the win­dow and stared out in­to the rain, 'he - he can't be near us now, can he?'

'No,' Har­ry mut­tered, sink­ing on to a bench and rub­bing his fore­head. 'He's prob­ably miles away. It hurt be­cause… he's… an­gry.'

Har­ry had not meant to say that at all, and heard the words as though a stranger had spo­ken them - yet knew at once that they were true. He did not know how he knew it, but he did; Volde­mort, wher­ev­er he was, what­ev­er he was do­ing, was in a tow­er­ing tem­per.

'Did you see him?' said Ron, look­ing hor­ri­fied. 'Did you… get a vi­sion, or some­thing?'

Har­ry sat quite still, star­ing at his feet, al­low­ing his mind and his mem­ory to re­lax in the af­ter­math of the pain.

A con­fused tan­gle of shapes, a howl­ing rush of voic­es…

'He wants some­thing done, and it's not hap­pen­ing fast enough,' he said.

Again, he felt sur­prised to hear the words com­ing out of his mouth, and yet was quite cer­tain they were true.

'But… how do you know?' said Ron.

Har­ry shook his head and cov­ered his eyes with his hands, press­ing down up­on them with his palms. Lit­tle stars erupt­ed in them. He felt Ron sit down on the bench be­side him and knew Ron was star­ing at him.

'Is this what it was about last time?' said Ron in a hushed voice. 'When your scar hurt in Um­bridge's of­fice? You-​Know-​Who was an­gry?'

Har­ry shook his head.

'What is it, then?'

Har­ry was think­ing him­self back. He had been look­ing in­to Um­bridge's face… his scar had hurt… and he had had that odd feel­ing in his stom­ach… a strange, leap­ing feel­ing… a hap­py feel­ing… but of course, he had not recog­nised it for what it was, as he had been feel­ing so mis­er­able him­self…

'Last time, it was be­cause he was pleased,' he said. 'Re­al­ly pleased. He thought… some­thing good was go­ing to hap­pen. And the night be­fore we came back to Hog­warts…' he thought back to the mo­ment when his scar had hurt so bad­ly in his and Ron's bed­room in Grim­mauld Place… 'he was fu­ri­ous

He looked round at Ron, who was gap­ing at him.

'You could take over from Trelawney, mate,' he said in an awed voice.

'I'm not mak­ing prophe­cies,' said Har­ry.

'No, you know what you're do­ing?' Ron said, sound­ing both scared and im­pressed. 'Har­ry, you're read­ing You-​Know-​Who's mind!'

'No,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head. 'It's more like… his mood, I sup­pose. I'm just get­ting flash­es of what mood he's in. Dum­ble­dore said some­thing like this was hap­pen­ing last year. He said that when Volde­mort was near me, or when he was feel­ing ha­tred, I could tell. Well, now I'm feel­ing it when he's pleased, too…"

There was a pause. The wind and rain lashed at the build­ing.

'You've got to tell some­one,' said Ron.

'I told Sir­ius last time.'

'Well, tell him about this time!'

'Can't, can I?' said Har­ry grim­ly. 'Um­bridge is watch­ing the owls and the fires, re­mem­ber?'

'Well then, Dum­ble­dore.'

'I've just told you, he al­ready knows,' said Har­ry short­ly, get­ting to his feet, tak­ing his cloak off his peg and swing­ing it around him. There's no point telling him again.'

Ron did up the fas­ten­ing of his own cloak, watch­ing Har­ry thought­ful­ly.

'Dum­ble­dore'd want to know,' he said.

Har­ry shrugged.

'C'mon… we've still got Si­lenc­ing Charms to prac­tise.'

They hur­ried back through the dark grounds, slid­ing and stum­bling up the mud­dy lawns, not talk­ing. Har­ry was think­ing hard. What was it that Volde­mort want­ed done that was not hap­pen­ing quick­ly enough?

'… he's got oth­er plans… plans he can put in­to op­er­ation very qui­et­ly in­deed… stuff he can on­ly get by stealth… like a weapon. Some­thing he didn't have last time.'

Har­ry had not thought about those words in weeks; he had been too ab­sorbed in what was go­ing on at Hog­warts, too busy dwelling on the on­go­ing bat­tles with Um­bridge, the in­jus­tice of all the Min­istry in­ter­fer­ence… but now they came back to him and made him won­der… Volde­mort's anger would make sense if he was no near­er to lay­ing hands on the weapon, what­ev­er it was. Had the Or­der thwart­ed him, stopped him from seiz­ing it? Where was it kept? Who had it now?

'Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia,' said Ron's voice and Har­ry came back to his sens­es just in time to clam­ber through the por­trait hole in­to the com­mon room.

It ap­peared that Hermione had gone to bed ear­ly, leav­ing Crook­shanks curled in a near­by chair and an as­sort­ment of knob­bly knit­ted elf hats ly­ing on a ta­ble by the fire. Har­ry was rather grate­ful that she was not around, be­cause he did not much want to dis­cuss his scar hurt­ing and have her urge him to go to Dum­ble­dore, too. Ron kept throw­ing him anx­ious glances, but Har­ry pulled out his Charms books and set to work on fin­ish­ing his es­say, though he was on­ly pre­tend­ing to con­cen­trate and by the time Ron said he was go­ing up to bed, too, he had writ­ten hard­ly any­thing.

Mid­night came and went while Har­ry was read­ing and reread­ing a pas­sage about the us­es of scurvy-​grass, lo­vage and sneeze­wort and not tak­ing in a word of it.

These plantes are moste ef­fi­ca­cious in the in­flam­ing of the braine, and are there­fore much used in Con­fus­ing and Be­fud­dle­ment Draughts, where the wiz­ard is de­sirous of pro­duc­ing hot-​head­ed­ness and reck­less­ness…

… Hermione said Sir­ius was be­com­ing reck­less cooped up in Grim­mauld Place…

… moste ef­fi­ca­cious in the in­flam­ing of the braine, and are there­fore much used…

… the Dai­ly Prophet would think his brain was in­flamed if they found out that he knew what Volde­mort was feel­ing…

… there­fore much used in Con­fus­ing and Be­fud­dle­ment Draughts…

… con­fus­ing was the word, all right; why did he know what Volde­mort was feel­ing? What was this weird con­nec­tion be­tween them, which Dum­ble­dore had nev­er been able to ex­plain sat­is­fac­to­ri­ly?

… where the wiz­ard is de­sirous…

… how Har­ry would like to sleep…

…of pro­duc­ing hot-​head­ed­ness…

… it was warm and com­fort­able in his arm­chair be­fore the fire, with the rain still beat­ing heav­ily on the win­dow­panes, Crook­shanks purring, and the crack­ling of the flames…

The book slipped from Har­ry's slack grip and land­ed with a dull thud on the hearthrug. His head lolled side­ways…

He was walk­ing once more along a win­dow­less cor­ri­dor, his foot­steps echo­ing in the si­lence. As the door at the end of the pas­sage loomed larg­er, his heart beat fast with ex­cite­ment… if he could on­ly open it… en­ter be­yond…

He stretched out his hand… his fin­ger­tips were inch­es from it…

'Har­ry Pot­ter, sir!'

He awoke with a start. The can­dles had all been ex­tin­guished in the com­mon room, but there was some­thing mov­ing close by.

'Whozair?' said Har­ry, sit­ting up­right in his chair. The fire was al­most out, the room very dark.

'Dob­by has your owl, sir!' said a squeaky voice.

'Dob­by?' said Har­ry thick­ly, peer­ing through the gloom to­wards the source of the voice.

Dob­by the house-​elf was stand­ing be­side the ta­ble on which Hermione had left half a dozen of her knit­ted hats. His large, point­ed ears were now stick­ing out from be­neath what looked like all the hats Hermione had ev­er knit­ted; he was wear­ing one on top of the oth­er, so that his head seemed elon­gat­ed by two or three feet, and on the very top­most bob­ble sat Hed­wig, hoot­ing serene­ly and ob­vi­ous­ly cured.

'Dob­by vol­un­teered to re­turn Har­ry Pot­ter's owl,' said the elf squeak­ily, with a look of pos­itive ado­ra­tion on his face, 'Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank says she is all well now, sir.' He sank in­to a deep bow so that his pen­cil-​like nose brushed the thread­bare sur­face of the hearthrug and Hed­wig gave an in­dig­nant hoot and flut­tered on to the arm of Har­ry's chair.

Thanks, Dob­by!' said Har­ry, stroking Hed­wig's head and blink­ing hard, try­ing to rid him­self of the im­age of the door in his dream… it had been very vivid. Sur­vey­ing Dob­by more close­ly, he no­ticed that the elf was al­so wear­ing sev­er­al scarves and in­nu­mer­able socks, so that his feet looked far too big for his body.

'Er… have you been tak­ing all the clothes Hermione's been leav­ing out?'

'Oh, no, sir,' said Dob­by hap­pi­ly. 'Dob­by has been tak­ing some for Winky, too, sir.'

'Yeah, how is Winky?' asked Har­ry.

Dob­by's ears drooped slight­ly.

'Winky is still drink­ing lots, sir,' he said sad­ly, his enor­mous round green eyes, large as ten­nis balls, down­cast. 'She still does not care for clothes, Har­ry Pot­ter. Nor do the oth­er house-​elves. None of them will clean Gryffind­or Tow­er any more, not with the hats and socks hid­den ev­ery­where, they finds them in­sult­ing, sir. Dob­by does it all him­self, sir, but Dob­by does not mind, sir, for he al­ways hopes to meet Har­ry Pot­ter and tonight, sir, he has got his wish!' Dob­by sank in­to a deep bow again. 'But Har­ry Pot­ter does not seem hap­py,' Dob­by went on, straight­en­ing up again and look­ing timid­ly at Har­ry. 'Dob­by heard him mut­ter­ing in his sleep. Was Har­ry Pot­ter hav­ing bad dreams?'

'Not re­al­ly bad,' said Har­ry, yawn­ing and rub­bing his eyes. 'I've had worse.'

The elf sur­veyed Har­ry out of his vast, orb-​like eyes. Then he said very se­ri­ous­ly, his ears droop­ing, 'Dob­by wish­es he could help Har­ry Pot­ter, for Har­ry Pot­ter set Dob­by free and Dob­by is much, much hap­pi­er now.'

Har­ry smiled.

'You can't help me, Dob­by, but thanks for the of­fer.'

He bent and picked up his Po­tions book. He'd have to try to fin­ish the es­say to­mor­row. He closed the book and as he did so the fire­light il­lu­mi­nat­ed the thin white scars on the back of his hand - the re­sult of his de­ten­tions with Um­bridge…

'Wait a mo­ment - there is some­thing you can do for me, Dob­by,' said Har­ry slow­ly.

The elf looked round, beam­ing.

'Name it, Har­ry Pot­ter, sir!'

'I need to find a place where twen­ty-​eight peo­ple can prac­tise De­fence Against the Dark Arts with­out be­ing dis­cov­ered by any of the teach­ers. Es­pe­cial­ly,' Har­ry clenched his hand on the book, so that the scars shone pearly white, 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.'

He ex­pect­ed the elf's smile to van­ish, his ears to droop; he ex­pect­ed him to say it was im­pos­si­ble, or else that he would try to find some­where, but his hopes were not high. What he had not ex­pect­ed was for Dob­by to give a lit­tle skip, his ears wag­gling cheer­ful­ly, and clap his hands to­geth­er.

'Dob­by knows the per­fect place, sir!' he said hap­pi­ly. 'Dob­by heard tell of it from the oth­er house-​elves when he came to Hog­warts, sir. It is known by us as the Come and Go Room, sir, or else as the Room of Re­quire­ment!'

'Why?' said Har­ry cu­ri­ous­ly.

'Be­cause it is a room that a per­son can on­ly en­ter,' said Dob­by se­ri­ous­ly, 'when they have re­al need of it. Some­times it is there, and some­times it is not, but when it ap­pears, it is al­ways equipped for the seek­er's needs. Dob­by has used it, sir,' said the elf, drop­ping his voice and look­ing guilty, 'when Winky has been very drunk; he has hid­den her in the Room of Re­quire­ment and he has found an­ti­dotes to But­ter­beer there, and a nice elf-​sized bed to set­tle her on while she sleeps it off, sir… and Dob­by knows Mr Filch has found ex­tra clean­ing ma­te­ri­als there when he has run short, sir, and -'

'And if you re­al­ly need­ed a bath­room,' said Har­ry, sud­den­ly re­mem­ber­ing some­thing Dum­ble­dore had said at the Yule Ball the pre­vi­ous Christ­mas, 'would it fill it­self with cham­ber pots?'

'Dob­by ex­pects so, sir,' said Dob­by, nod­ding earnest­ly. 'It is a most amaz­ing room, sir.'

'How many peo­ple know about it?' said Har­ry, sit­ting up straighter in his chair.

'Very few, sir. Most­ly peo­ple stum­bles across it when they needs it, sir, but of­ten they nev­er finds it again, for they do not know that it is al­ways there wait­ing to be called in­to ser­vice, sir.'

'It sounds bril­liant,' said Har­ry, his heart rac­ing. 'It sounds per­fect, Dob­by. When can you show me where it is?'

'Any time, Har­ry Pot­ter, sir,' said Dob­by, look­ing de­light­ed at Har­rys en­thu­si­asm. 'We could go now, if you like!'

For a mo­ment Har­ry was tempt­ed to go with Dob­by. He was halfway out of his seat, in­tend­ing to hur­ry up­stairs for his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak when, not for the first time, a voice very much like Hermione's whis­pered in his ear: reck­less. It was, af­ter all, very late, he was ex­haust­ed, and had Snape's es­say to fin­ish.

'Not tonight, Dob­by,' said Har­ry re­luc­tant­ly, sink­ing back in­to his chair. This is re­al­ly im­por­tant… I don't want to blow it, it'll need prop­er plan­ning. Lis­ten, can you just tell me ex­act­ly where this Room of Re­quire­ment is, and how to get in there?'

*

Their robes bil­lowed and swirled around them as they splashed across the flood­ed veg­etable patch to dou­ble Her­bol­ogy, where they could hard­ly hear what Pro­fes­sor Sprout was say­ing over the ham­mer­ing of rain­drops hard as hail­stones on the green­house roof. The af­ter­noons Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures les­son was to be re­lo­cat­ed from the storm-​swept grounds to a free class­room on the ground floor and, to their in­tense re­lief, An­geli­na had sought out her team at lunch to tell them that Quid­ditch prac­tice was can­celled.

'Good,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly, when she told him, 'be­cause we've found some­where to have our first De­fence meet­ing. Tonight, eight o'clock, sev­enth floor op­po­site that tapestry of Barn­abas the Barmy be­ing clubbed by those trolls. Can you tell Katie and Ali­cia?'

She looked slight­ly tak­en aback but promised to tell the oth­ers. Har­ry re­turned hun­gri­ly to his sausages and mash. When he looked up to take a drink of pump­kin juice, he found Hermione watch­ing him.

'What?' he said thick­ly.

'Well… it's just that Dob­by's plans aren't al­ways that safe. Don't you re­mem­ber when he lost you all the bones in your arm?'

This room isn't just some mad idea of Dob­by's; Dum­ble­dore knows about it, too, he men­tioned it to me at the Yule Ball.'

Hermione's ex­pres­sion cleared. V

'Dum­ble­dore told you about it?'

'Just in pass­ing,' said Har­ry, shrug­ging.

'Oh, well, that's all right then,' said Hermione briskly and raised no more ob­jec­tions.

To­geth­er with Ron they had spent most of the day seek­ing out those peo­ple who had signed their names to the list in the Hog's Head and telling them where to meet that evening. Some­what to Har­ry's dis­ap­point­ment, it was Gin­ny who man­aged to find Cho Chang and her friend first; how­ev­er, by the end of din­ner he was con­fi­dent that the news had been passed to ev­ery one of the twen­ty-​five peo­ple who had turned up in the Hog's Head.

At half past sev­en Har­ry, Ron and Hermione left the Gryffind­or com­mon room, Har­ry clutch­ing a cer­tain piece of aged parch­ment in his hand. Fifth-​years were al­lowed to be out in the cor­ri­dors un­til nine o'clock, but all three of them kept look­ing around ner­vous­ly as they made their way along the sev­enth floor.

'Hold it,' Har­ry warned, un­fold­ing the piece of parch­ment at the top of the last stair­case, tap­ping it with his wand and mut­ter­ing, 'I solemn­ly swear that I am up to no good.'

A map of Hog­warts ap­peared on the blank sur­face of the parch­ment. Tiny black mov­ing dots, la­belled with names, showed where var­ious peo­ple were.

'Filch is on the sec­ond floor,' said Har­ry, hold­ing the map close to his eyes, 'and Mrs. Nor­ris is on the fourth.'

'And Um­bridge?' said Hermione anx­ious­ly.

'In her of­fice,' said Har­ry, point­ing. 'OK, lets go.'

They hur­ried along the cor­ri­dor to the place Dob­by had de­scribed to Har­ry, a stretch of blank wall op­po­site an enor­mous tapestry de­pict­ing Barn­abas the Barmy's fool­ish at­tempt to train trolls for the bal­let.

'OK,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly, while a moth-​eat­en troll paused in his re­lent­less club­bing of the would-​be bal­let teach­er to watch them. 'Dob­by said to walk past this bit of wall three times, con­cen­trat­ing hard on what we need.'

They did so, turn­ing sharply at the win­dow just be­yond the blank stretch of wall, then at the man-​sized vase on its oth­er side. Ron had screwed up his eyes in con­cen­tra­tion; Hermione was whis­per­ing some­thing un­der her breath; Har­ry's fists were clenched as he stared ahead of him.

We need some­where to learn to fight … he thought. Just give us a place to prac­tise… some­where they can't find us…

'Har­ry!' said Hermione sharply, as they wheeled around af­ter their third walk past.

A high­ly pol­ished door had ap­peared in the wall. Ron was star­ing at it, look­ing slight­ly wary. Har­ry reached out, seized the brass han­dle, pulled open the door and led the way in­to a spa­cious room lit with flick­er­ing torch­es like those that il­lu­mi­nat­ed the dun­geons eight floors be­low.

The walls were lined with wood­en book­cas­es and in­stead of chairs there were large silk cush­ions on the floor. A set of shelves at the far end of the room car­ried a range of in­stru­ments such as Sneako­scopes, Se­cre­cy Sen­sors and a large, cracked Foe-​Glass that Har­ry was sure had hung, the pre­vi­ous year, in the fake Moodys of­fice.

These will be good when we're prac­tis­ing Stun­ning,' said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, prod­ding one of the cush­ions with his foot.

'And just look at these books!' said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly, run­ning a fin­ger along the spines of the large leather-​bound tomes. 'A Com­pendi­um of Com­mon Curs­es and their Counter-​Ac­tions… The Dark Arts Out­smart­ed… Self-​De­fen­sive Spell­work… wow…" She looked around at Har­ry, her face glow­ing, and he saw that the pres­ence of hun­dreds of books had fi­nal­ly con­vinced Hermione that what they were do­ing was right. 'Har­ry, this is won­der­ful, there's ev­ery­thing we need here!'

And with­out fur­ther ado she slid Jinx­es for the Jinxed from its shelf, sank on to the near­est cush­ion and be­gan to read.

There was a gen­tle knock on the door. Har­ry looked round. Gm­ny, Neville, Laven­der, Par­vati and Dean had ar­rived.

'Whoa,' said Dean, star­ing around, im­pressed. 'What is this place?'

Har­ry be­gan to ex­plain, but be­fore he had fin­ished more peo­ple had ar­rived and he had to start all over again. By the time eight o'clock ar­rived, ev­ery cush­ion was oc­cu­pied. Har­ry moved across to the door and turned the key pro­trud­ing from the lock; it clicked in a sat­is­fy­ing­ly loud way and ev­ery­body fell silent, look­ing at him. Hermione care­ful­ly marked her page of Jinx­es for the Jinxed and set the book aside.

'Well,' said Har­ry, slight­ly ner­vous­ly. This is the place we've found for prac­tice ses­sions, and you've - er - ob­vi­ous­ly found it OK.'

'It's fan­tas­tic!' said Cho, and sev­er­al peo­ple mur­mured their agree­ment.

'It's bizarre,' said Fred, frown­ing around at it. 'We once hid from Filch in here, re­mem­ber, George? But it was just a broom cup­board then.'

'Hey, Har­ry, what's this stuff?' asked Dean from the rear of the room, in­di­cat­ing the Sneako­scopes and the Foe-​Glass.

'Dark de­tec­tors,' said Har­ry, step­ping be­tween the cush­ions to reach them. 'Ba­si­cal­ly they all show when Dark wiz­ards or en­emies are around, but you don't want to re­ly on them too much, they can be fooled…'

He gazed for a mo­ment in­to the cracked Foe-​Glass; shad­owy fig­ures were mov­ing around in­side it, though none was recog­nis­able. He turned his back on it.

'Well, I've been think­ing about the sort of stuff we ought to do first and - er -' He no­ticed a raised hand. 'What, Hermione?'

'I think we ought to elect a lead­er,' said Hermione.

'Har­ry's lead­er,' said Cho at once, look­ing at Hermione as though she were mad.

Har­rys stom­ach did yet an­oth­er back-​flip.

'Yes, but I think we ought to vote on it prop­er­ly,' said Hermione, un­per­turbed. 'It makes it for­mal and it gives him au­thor­ity. So -ev­ery­one who thinks Har­ry ought to be our lead­er?'

Ev­ery­body put up their hand, even Zacharias Smith, though he did it very half-​heart­ed­ly.

'Er - right, thanks,' said Har­ry, who could feel his face burn­ing. 'And - what, Hermione?'

'I al­so think we ought to have a name,' she said bright­ly, her hand still in the air. 'It would pro­mote a feel­ing of team spir­it and uni­ty, don't you think?'

'Can we be the An­ti-​Um­bridge League?' said An­geli­na hope­ful­ly.

'Or the Min­istry of Mag­ic are Mo­rons Group?' sug­gest­ed Fred.

'I was think­ing,' said Hermione, frown­ing at Fred, 'more of a name that didn't tell ev­ery­one what we were up to, so we can re­fer to it safe­ly out­side meet­ings.'

The De­fence As­so­ci­ation?' said Cho. The DA for short, so no­body knows what we're talk­ing about?'

'Yeah, the DA's good,' said Gin­ny. 'On­ly let's make it stand for Dum­ble­dores Army, be­cause that's the Min­istry's worst fear, isn't it?'

There was a good deal of ap­pre­cia­tive mur­mur­ing and laugh­ter at this.

'All in favour of the DA?' said Hermione boss­ily, kneel­ing up on her cush­ion to count. That's a ma­jor­ity - mo­tion passed!'

She pinned the piece of parch­ment with all of their sig­na­tures on it on to the wall and wrote across the top in large let­ters:

'Right,' said Har­ry, when she had sat down again, 'shall we get prac­tis­ing then? I was think­ing, the first thing we should do is Ex­pel­liar­mus, you know, the Dis­arm­ing Charm. I know it's pret­ty ba­sic but I've found it re­al­ly use­ful -'

'Oh, please,' said Zacharias Smith, rolling his eyes and fold­ing his arms. 'I don't think Ex­pel­liar­mus is ex­act­ly go­ing to help us against You-​Know-​Who, do you?'

'I've used it against him,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly. 'It saved my life in June.'

Smith opened his mouth stupid­ly. The rest of the room was very qui­et.

'But if you think it's be­neath you, you can leave,' Har­ry said.

Smith did not move. Nor did any­body else.

'OK,' said Har­ry, his mouth slight­ly dri­er than usu­al with all these eyes up­on him, 'I reck­on we should all di­vide in­to pairs and prac­tise.'

It felt very odd to be is­su­ing in­struc­tions, but not near­ly as odd as see­ing them fol­lowed. Ev­ery­body got to their feet at once and di­vid­ed up. Pre­dictably, Neville was left part­ner­less.

'You can prac­tise with me,' Har­ry told him. 'Right - on the count of three, then - one, two, three -'

The room was sud­den­ly full of shouts of Ex­pel­liar­mus. Wands flew in all di­rec­tions; missed spells hit books on shelves and sent them fly­ing in­to the air. Har­ry was too quick for Neville, whose wand went spin­ning out of his hand, hit the ceil­ing in a show­er of sparks and land­ed with a clat­ter on top of a book­shelf, from which Har­ry re­trieved it with a Sum­mon­ing Charm. Glanc­ing around, he thought he had been right to sug­gest they prac­tise the ba­sics first; there was a lot of shod­dy spell­work go­ing on; many peo­ple were not suc­ceed­ing in Dis­arm­ing their op­po­nents at all, but mere­ly caus­ing them to jump back­wards a few paces or wince as their fee­ble spell whooshed over them.

'Ex­pel­liar­mus!' said Neville, and Har­ry, caught un­awares, ielt his wand fly out of his hand.

'I DID IT!' said Neville glee­ful­ly. 'I've nev­er done it be­fore - I DID IT!'

'Good one!' said Har­ry en­cour­ag­ing­ly, de­cid­ing not to point out that in a re­al du­el Nevilles op­po­nent was un­like­ly to be star­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion with his wand held loose­ly at his side. 'Lis­ten, Neville, can you take it in turns to prac­tise with Ron and Hermione for a cou­ple of min­utes so I can walk around and see how the rest are do­ing?'

Har­ry moved off in­to the mid­dle of the room. Some­thing very odd was hap­pen­ing to Zacharias Smith. Ev­ery time he opened his mouth to dis­arm An­tho­ny Gold­stein, his own wand would fly out of his hand, yet An­tho­ny did not seem to be mak­ing a sound. Har­ry did not have to look far to solve the mys­tery: Fred and George were sev­er­al feet from Smith and tak­ing it in turns to point their wands at his back.

'Sor­ry, Har­ry' said George hasti­ly, when Har­ry caught his eye. 'Couldn't re­sist.'

Har­ry walked around the oth­er pairs, try­ing to cor­rect those who were do­ing the spell wrong. Gin­ny was teamed with Michael Cor­ner; she was do­ing very well, where­as Michael was ei­ther very bad or un­will­ing to jinx her. Ernie Macmil­lan was flour­ish­ing his wand un­nec­es­sar­ily, giv­ing his part­ner time to get in un­der his guard; the Creevey broth­ers were en­thu­si­as­tic but er­rat­ic and main­ly re­spon­si­ble for all the books leap­ing off the shelves around them; Lu­na Love­good was sim­ilar­ly patchy, oc­ca­sion­al­ly send­ing Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley's wand spin­ning out of his hand, at oth­er times mere­ly caus­ing his hair to stand on end.

'OK, stop!' Har­ry shout­ed. 'Stop! STOP!'

I need a whis­tle, he thought, and im­me­di­ate­ly spot­ted one ly­ing on top of the near­est row of books. He caught it up and blew hard. Ev­ery­one low­ered their wands.

That wasn't bad,' said Har­ry, 'but there's def­inite room for im­prove­ment.' Zacharias Smith glared at him. 'Let's try again.'

He moved off around the room again, stop­ping here and there to make sug­ges­tions. Slow­ly, the gen­er­al per­for­mance im­proved.

He avoid­ed go­ing near Cho and her friend for a while, but af­ter walk­ing twice around ev­ery oth­er pair in the room felt he could not ig­nore them any longer.

'Oh no,' said Cho rather wild­ly as he ap­proached. 'Ex­pel­liarmious! I mean, Ex­pel­limel­lius't't I - oh, sor­ry, Ma­ri­et­ta!'

Her curly-​haired friend's sleeve had caught fire; Ma­ri­et­ta ex­tin­guished it with her own wand and glared at Har­ry as though it was his fault.

'You made me ner­vous, I was do­ing all right be­fore then!' Cho told Har­ry rue­ful­ly.

That was quite good,' Har­ry lied, but when she raised her eye­brows he said, 'Well, no, it was lousy, but I know you can do it prop­er­ly, I was watch­ing from over there.'

She laughed. Her friend Ma­ri­et­ta looked at them rather sourly and turned away.

'Don't mind her,' Cho mut­tered. 'She doesn't re­al­ly want to be here but I made her come with me. Her par­ents have for­bid­den her to do any­thing that might up­set Um­bridge. You see - her mum works for the Min­istry.'

'What about your par­ents?' asked Har­ry.

'Well, they've for­bid­den me to get on the wrong side of Um­bridge, too,' said Cho, draw­ing her­self up proud­ly. 'But if they think I'm not go­ing to fight You-​Know-​Who af­ter what hap­pened to Cedric -'

She broke off, look­ing rather con­fused, and an awk­ward si­lence fell be­tween them; Ter­ry Boot's wand went whizzing past Har­ry's ear and hit Ali­cia Spin­net hard on the nose.

'Well, my dad is very sup­port­ive of any an­ti-​Min­istry ac­tion!' said Lu­na Love­good proud­ly from just be­hind Har­ry; ev­ident­ly she had been eaves­drop­ping on his con­ver­sa­tion while Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley at­tempt­ed to dis­en­tan­gle him­self from the robes that had flown up over his head. 'He's al­ways say­ing he'd be­lieve any­thing of Fudge; I mean, the num­ber of gob­lins Fudge has had as­sas­si­nat­ed! And of course he us­es the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies to de­vel­op ter­ri­ble poi­sons, which he se­cret­ly feeds to any­body who dis­agrees with him. And then there's his Umgubu­lar Slashk­il­ter —'

'Don't ask,' Har­ry mut­tered to Cho as she opened her mouth, look­ing puz­zled. She gig­gled.

'Hey, Har­ry,' Hermione called from the oth­er end of the room, 'have you checked the time?'

He looked down at his watch and was shocked to see it was al­ready ten past nine, which meant they need­ed to get back to their com­mon rooms im­me­di­ate­ly or risk be­ing caught and pun­ished by Filch for be­ing out of bounds. He blew his whis­tle; ev­ery­body stopped shout­ing 'Ex­pel­lian­nus' and the last cou­ple of wands clat­tered to the floor.

'Well, that was pret­ty good,' said Har­ry, 'but we've over­run, we'd bet­ter leave it here. Same time, same place next week?'

'Soon­er!' said Dean Thomas ea­ger­ly and many peo­ple nod­ded in agree­ment.

An­geli­na, how­ev­er, said quick­ly The Quid­ditch sea­son's about to start, we need team prac­tices too!'

'Let's say next Wednes­day night, then,' said Har­ry, 'we can de­cide on ad­di­tion­al meet­ings then. Come on, we'd bet­ter get go­ing.'

He pulled out the Ma­raud­er's Map again and checked it care­ful­ly for signs of teach­ers on the sev­enth floor. He let them all leave in threes and fours, watch­ing their tiny dots anx­ious­ly to see that they re­turned safe­ly to their dor­mi­to­ries: the Huf­flepuffs to the base­ment cor­ri­dor that al­so led to the kitchens; the Raven­claws to a tow­er on the west side of the cas­tle, and the Gryffind­ors along the cor­ri­dor to the Fat La­dy's por­trait.

'That was re­al­ly, re­al­ly good, Har­ry' said Hermione, when fi­nal­ly it was just her, Har­ry and Ron who were left.

'Yeah, it was!' said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, as they slipped out of the door and watched it melt back in­to stone be­hind them. 'Did you see me dis­arm Hermione, Har­ry?'

'On­ly once,' said Hermione, stung. 'I got you loads more than you got me -'

'I did not on­ly get you once, I got you at least three times -'

'Well, if you're count­ing the one where you tripped over your own feet and knocked the wand out of my hand -'

They ar­gued all the way back to the com­mon room, but Har­ry was not lis­ten­ing to them. He had one eye on the Ma­raud­er's Map, but he was al­so think­ing of Cho say­ing he made her ner­vous.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 19 - The Lion and the Serpent


Har­ry felt as though he were car­ry­ing some kind of tal­is­man in­side his chest over the fol­low­ing two weeks, a glow­ing se­cret that sup­port­ed him through Um­bridge's class­es and even made it pos­si­ble for him to smile bland­ly as he looked in­to her hor­ri­ble bulging eyes. He and the DA were re­sist­ing her un­der her very nose, do­ing the very thing she and the Min­istry most feared, and when­ev­er he was sup­posed to be read­ing Wilbert Slinkhard's book dur­ing her lessons he dwelled in­stead on sat­is­fy­ing mem­ories of their most re­cent meet­ings, re­mem­ber­ing how Neville had suc­cess­ful­ly dis­armed Hermione, how Col­in Creevey had mas­tered the Im­ped­iment Jinx af­ter three meet­ings' hard ef­fort, how Par­vati Patil had pro­duced such a good Re­duc­tor Curse that she had re­duced the ta­ble car­ry­ing all the Sneako­scopes to dust.

He was find­ing it al­most im­pos­si­ble to fix a reg­ular night of the week for the DA meet­ings, as they had to ac­com­mo­date three sep­arate team's Quid­ditch prac­tices, which were of­ten re­ar­ranged due to bad weath­er con­di­tions; but Har­ry was not sor­ry about this; he had a feel­ing that it was prob­ably bet­ter to keep the tim­ing of their meet­ings un­pre­dictable. If any­one was watch­ing them, it would be hard to make out a pat­tern.

Hermione soon de­vised a very clever method of com­mu­ni­cat­ing the time and date of the next meet­ing to all the mem­bers in case they need­ed to change it at short no­tice, be­cause it would look sus­pi­cious if peo­ple from dif­fer­ent Hous­es were seen cross­ing the Great Hall to talk to each oth­er too of­ten. She gave each of the mem­bers of the DA a fake Galleon (Ron be­came very ex­cit­ed when he first saw the bas­ket and was con­vinced she was ac­tu­al­ly giv­ing out gold).

'You see the nu­mer­als around the edge of the coins?' Hermione said, hold­ing one up for ex­am­ina­tion at the end of their fourth meet­ing. The coin gleamed fat and yel­low in the light from the torch­es. 'On re­al Galleons that's just a se­ri­al num­ber re­fer­ring to the gob­lin who cast the coin. On these fake coins, though, the num­bers will change to re­flect the time and date of the next meet­ing. The coins will grow hot when the date changes, so if you're car­ry­ing them in a pock­et you'll be able to feel them. We take one each, and when Har­ry sets the date of the next meet­ing he'll change the num­bers on his coin, and be­cause I've put a Pro­tean Charm on them, they'll all change to mim­ic his.'

A blank si­lence greet­ed Hermione's words. She looked around at all the faces up­turned to her, rather dis­con­cert­ed.

'Well - I thought it was a good idea,' she said un­cer­tain­ly, 'I mean, even if Um­bridge asked us to turn out our pock­ets, there's noth­ing fishy about car­ry­ing a Galleon, is there? But… well, if you don't want to use them -'

'You can do a Pro­tean Charm?' said Ter­ry Boot.

'Yes,' said Hermione.

'But that's… that's NEWT stan­dard, that is,' he said weak­ly.

'Oh,' said Hermione, try­ing to look mod­est. 'Oh… well… yes, I sup­pose it is.'

'How come you're not in Raven­claw?' he de­mand­ed, star­ing at Hermione with some­thing close to won­der. 'With brains like yours?'

'Well, the Sort­ing Hat did se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­er putting me in Raven­claw dur­ing my Sort­ing,' said Hermione bright­ly, 'but it de­cid­ed on Gryffind­or in the end. So, does that mean we're us­ing the Galleons?'

There was a mur­mur of as­sent and ev­ery­body moved for­wards to col­lect one from the bas­ket. Har­ry looked side­ways at Hermione.

'You know what these re­mind me of?'

'No, what's that?'

The Death Eaters' scars. Volde­mort touch­es one of them, and all their scars burn, and they know they've got to join him.'

'Well… yes,' said Hermione qui­et­ly, 'that is where I got the idea • •. but you'll no­tice I de­cid­ed to en­grave the date on bits of met­al rather than on our mem­bers' skin.'

'Yeah… I pre­fer your way,' said Har­ry, grin­ning, as he slipped his Galleon in­to his pock­et. '1 sup­pose the on­ly dan­ger with these is that we might ac­ci­den­tal­ly spend them.'

'Fat chance,' said Ron, who was ex­am­in­ing his own fake Galleon with a slight­ly mourn­ful air, 'I haven't got any re­al Galleons to con­fuse it with.'

As the first Quid­ditch match of the sea­son, Gryffind­or ver­sus Slytherin, drew near­er, their DA meet­ings were put on hold be­cause An­geli­na in­sist­ed on al­most dai­ly prac­tices. The fact that the Quid­ditch Cup had not been held for so long added con­sid­er­ably to the in­ter­est and ex­cite­ment sur­round­ing the forth­com­ing game; the Raven­claws and Huf­flepuffs were tak­ing a live­ly in­ter­est in the out­come, for they, of course, would be play­ing both teams over the com­ing year; and the Heads of House of the com­pet­ing teams, though they at­tempt­ed to dis­guise it un­der a de­cent pre­tence of sports­man­ship, were de­ter­mined to see their own side vic­to­ri­ous. Har­ry re­alised how much Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall cared about beat­ing Slytherin when she ab­stained from giv­ing them home­work in the week lead­ing up to the match.

'I think you've got enough to be get­ting on with at the mo­ment,' she said lofti­ly. No­body could quite be­lieve their ears un­til she looked di­rect­ly at Har­ry and Ron and said grim­ly, 'I've be­come ac­cus­tomed to see­ing the Quid­ditch Cup in my study, boys, and I re­al­ly don't want to have to hand it over to Pro­fes­sor Snape, so use the ex­tra time to prac­tise, won't you?'

Snape was no less ob­vi­ous­ly par­ti­san; he had booked the Quid­ditch pitch for Slytherin prac­tice so of­ten that the Gryffind­ors had dif­fi­cul­ty get­ting on it to play. He was al­so turn­ing a deaf ear to the many re­ports of Slytherin at­tempts to hex Gryffind­or play­ers in the cor­ri­dors. When Ali­cia Spin­net turned up in the hos­pi­tal wing with her eye­brows grow­ing so thick and fast they ob­scured her vi­sion and ob­struct­ed her mouth, Snape in­sist­ed that she must have at­tempt­ed a Hair-​thick­en­ing Charm on her­self and re­fused to lis­ten to the four­teen eye-​wit­ness­es who in­sist­ed they had seen the Slytherin Keep­er, Miles Bletch­ley, hit her from be­hind with a jinx while she worked in the li­brary.

Har­ry felt op­ti­mistic about Gryffind­or's chances; they had, af­ter all, nev­er lost to Mal­foy's team. Ad­mit­ted­ly, Ron was still not per­form­ing to Wood's stan­dard, but he was work­ing ex­treme­ly hard to im­prove. His great­est weak­ness was a ten­den­cy to lose con­fi­dence af­ter he'd made a blun­der; if he let in one goal he be­came flus­tered and was there­fore like­ly to miss more. On the oth­er hand, Har­ry had seen Ron make some tru­ly spec­tac­ular saves when he was on form; dur­ing one mem­orable prac­tice he had hung one-​hand­ed from his broom and kicked the Quaf­fle so hard away from the goal­hoop that it soared the length of the pitch and through the cen­tre hoop at the oth­er end; the rest of the team felt this save com­pared favourably with one made re­cent­ly by Bar­ry Ryan, the Irish In­ter­na­tion­al Keep­er, against Poland's top Chas­er, Ladis­law Zamo­js­ki. Even Fred had said that Ron might yet make him and George proud, and that they were se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­er­ing ad­mit­ting he was re­lat­ed to them, some­thing they as­sured him they had been try­ing to de­ny for four years.

The on­ly thing re­al­ly wor­ry­ing Har­ry was how much Ron was al­low­ing the tac­tics of the Slytherin team to up­set him be­fore they even got on to the pitch. Har­ry, of course, had en­dured their snide com­ments for over four years, so whis­pers of, 'Hey, Pot­ty, I heard War­ring­ton's sworn to knock you off your broom on Sat­ur­day', far from chill­ing his blood, made him laugh. 'War­ring­ton's aim's so pa­thet­ic I'd be more wor­ried if he was aim­ing for the per­son next to me,' he re­tort­ed, which made Ron and Hermione laugh and wiped the smirk off Pan­sy Parkin­sons face.

But Ron had nev­er en­dured a re­lent­less cam­paign of in­sults, jeers and in­tim­ida­tion. When Slytherins, some of them sev­enth-​years and con­sid­er­ably larg­er than he was, mut­tered as they passed in the cor­ri­dors, 'Got your bed booked in the hos­pi­tal wing, Weasley?' he didn't laugh, but turned a del­icate shade of green. When Dra­co Mal­foy im­itat­ed Ron drop­ping the Quaf­fle (which he did when­ev­er they came with­in sight of each oth­er), Ron's ears glowed red and his hands shook so bad­ly that he was like­ly to drop what­ev­er he was hold­ing at the time, too.

Oc­to­ber ex­tin­guished it­self in a rush of howl­ing winds and driv­ing rain and Novem­ber ar­rived, cold as frozen iron, with hard irosts ev­ery morn­ing and icy draughts that bit at ex­posed hands and faces. The skies and the ceil­ing of the Great Hall turned a pale, pearly grey, the moun­tains around Hog­warts were snow­capped, and the tem­per­ature in the cas­tle dropped so low that many stu­dents wore their thick pro­tec­tive drag­on­skin gloves in the cor­ri­dors be­tween lessons.

The morn­ing of the match dawned bright and cold. When Har­ry awoke he looked round at Ron's bed and saw him sit­ting bolt up­right, his arms around his knees, star­ing fixed­ly in­to space.

'You all right?' said Har­ry.

Ron nod­ded but did not speak. Har­ry was re­mind­ed forcibly of the time Ron had ac­ci­den­tal­ly put a Slug-​vom­it­ing Charm on him­self; he looked just as pale and sweaty as he had done then, not to men­tion as re­luc­tant to open his mouth.

'You just need some break­fast,' Har­ry said brac­ing­ly. 'C'mon.'

The Great Hall was fill­ing up fast when they ar­rived, the talk loud­er and the mood more ex­uber­ant than usu­al. As they passed the Slytherin ta­ble there was an up­surge of noise. Har­ry looked round and saw that, in ad­di­tion to the usu­al green and sil­ver scarves and hats, ev­ery one of them was wear­ing a sil­ver badge in the shape of what seemed to be a crown. For some rea­son many of them waved at Ron, laugh­ing up­roar­ious­ly. Har­ry tried to see what was writ­ten on the badges as he walked by, but he was too con­cerned to get Ron past their ta­ble quick­ly to linger long enough to read them.

They re­ceived a rous­ing wel­come at the Gryffind­or ta­ble, where ev­ery­one was wear­ing red and gold, but far from rais­ing Ron's spir­its the cheers seemed to sap the last of his morale; he col­lapsed on to the near­est bench look­ing as though he were fac­ing his fi­nal meal.

'I must've been men­tal to do this,' he said in a croaky whis­per. 'Men­tal.'

'Don't be thick,' said Har­ry firm­ly, pass­ing him a choice of ce­re­als, 'you're go­ing to be fine. It's nor­mal to be ner­vous.'

'I'm rub­bish,' croaked Ron. 'I'm lousy. I can't play to save my life. What was I think­ing?'

'Get a grip,' said Har­ry stern­ly. 'Look at that save you made with your foot the oth­er day, even Fred and George said it was bril­liant.'

Ron turned a tor­tured face to Har­ry.

That was an ac­ci­dent,' he whis­pered mis­er­ably. 'I didn't mean to do it - I slipped off my broom when none of you were look­ing and when I was try­ing to get back on I kicked the Quaf­fle by ac­ci­dent.'

'Well,' said Har­ry, re­cov­er­ing quick­ly from this un­pleas­ant sur­prise, 'a few more ac­ci­dents like that and the game's in the bag, isn't it?'

Hermione and Gin­ny sat down op­po­site them wear­ing red and gold scarves, gloves and rosettes.

'How're you feel­ing?' Gin­ny asked Ron, who was now star­ing in­to the dregs of milk at the bot­tom of his emp­ty ce­re­al bowl as though se­ri­ous­ly con­sid­er­ing at­tempt­ing to drown him­self in them.

'He's just ner­vous,' said Har­ry.

'Well, that's a good sign, I nev­er feel you per­form as well in ex­ams if you're not a bit ner­vous,' said Hermione hearti­ly.

'Hel­lo,' said a vague and dreamy voice from be­hind them. Har­ry looked up: Lu­na Love­good had drift­ed over from the Raven­claw ta­ble. Many peo­ple were star­ing at her and a few were open­ly laugh­ing and point­ing; she had man­aged to pro­cure a hat shaped like a life-​size li­on's head, which was perched pre­car­ious­ly on her head.

'I'm sup­port­ing Gryffind­or,' said Lu­na, point­ing un­nec­es­sar­ily at her hat. 'Look what it does…'

She reached up and tapped the hat with her wand. It opened its mouth wide and gave an ex­treme­ly re­al­is­tic roar that made ev­ery­one in the vicin­ity jump.

'It's good, isn't it?' said Lu­na hap­pi­ly. 'I want­ed to have it chew­ing up a ser­pent to rep­re­sent Slytherm, you know, but there wasn't time. Any­way… good luck, Ronald!'

She drift­ed away. They had not quite re­cov­ered from the shock of Lu­na's hat be­fore An­geli­na came hur­ry­ing to­wards them, ac­com­pa­nied by Katie and Ali­cia, whose eye­brows had mer­ci­ful­ly been re­turned to nor­mal by Madam Pom­frey.

'When you're ready' she said, 'we're go­ing to go straight down to the pitch, check out con­di­tions and change.'

'We'll be there in a bit,' Har­ry as­sured her. 'Ron's just got to have some break­fast.'

It be­came clear af­ter ten min­utes, how­ev­er, that Ron was not ca­pa­ble of eat­ing any­thing more and Har­ry thought it best to get him down to the chang­ing rooms. As they rose from the ta­ble, Hermione got up, too, and tak­ing Har­ry's arm she drew him to one side.

'Don't let Ron see what's on those Slytherins' badges,' she whis­pered ur­gent­ly.

Har­ry looked ques­tion­ing­ly at her, but she shook her head warn-​in­gly; Ron had just am­bled over to them, look­ing lost and des­per­ate.

'Good luck, Ron,' said Hermione, stand­ing on tip­toe and kiss­ing him on the cheek. 'And you, Har­ry -'

Ron seemed to come to him­self slight­ly as they walked back across the Great Hall. He touched the spot on his face where Hermione had kissed him, look­ing puz­zled, as though he was not quite sure what had just hap­pened. He seemed too dis­tract­ed to no­tice much around him, but Har­ry cast a cu­ri­ous glance at the crown-​shaped badges as they passed the Slytherin ta­ble, and this time he made out the words etched on to them:

Weasley is our King

With an un­pleas­ant feel­ing that this could mean noth­ing good, he hur­ried Ron across the En­trance Hall, down the stone steps and out in­to the icy air.

The frosty grass crunched un­der their feet as they hur­ried down the slop­ing lawns to­wards the sta­di­um. There was no wind at all and the sky was a uni­form pearly white, which meant that vis­ibil­ity would be good with­out the draw­back of di­rect sun­light in the eyes. Har­ry point­ed out these en­cour­ag­ing fac­tors to Ron as they walked, but he was not sure that Ron was lis­ten­ing.

An­geli­na had changed al­ready and was talk­ing to the rest of the team when they en­tered. Har­ry and Ron pulled on their robes (Ron at­tempt­ed to do his up back-​to-​front for sev­er­al min­utes be­fore Ali­cia took pity on him and went to help), then sat down to lis­ten to the pre-​match talk while the bab­ble of voic­es out­side grew steadi­ly loud­er as the crowd came pour­ing out of the cas­tle to­wards the pitch.

'OK, I've on­ly just found out the fi­nal line-​up for Slytherin,' said An­geli­na, con­sult­ing a piece of parch­ment. 'Last year's Beat­ers,

Der­rick and Bole, have left, but it looks as though Mon­tague's re­placed them with the usu­al go­ril­las, rather than any­one who can fly par­tic­ular­ly well. They're two blokes called Crabbe and Goyle, I don't know much about them -'

'We do,' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

'Well, they don't look bright enough to tell one end of a broom from the oth­er,' said An­geli­na, pock­et­ing her parch­ment, 'but then I was al­ways sur­prised Der­rick and Bole man­aged to find their way on to the pitch with­out sign­posts.'

'Crabbe and Goyle are in the same mould,' Har­ry as­sured her.

They could hear hun­dreds of foot­steps mount­ing the banked bench­es of the spec­ta­tors' stands. Some peo­ple were singing, though Har­ry could not make out the words. He was start­ing to feel ner­vous, but he knew his but­ter­flies were as noth­ing com­pared to Ron's, who was clutch­ing his stom­ach and star­ing straight ahead again, his jaw set and his com­plex­ion pale grey.

'It's time,' said An­geli­na in a hushed voice, look­ing at her watch. 'C'mon ev­ery­one… good luck.'

The team rose, shoul­dered their brooms and marched in sin­gle file out of the chang­ing room and in­to the daz­zling sun­light. A roar of sound greet­ed them in which Har­ry could still hear singing, though it was muf­fled by the cheers and whis­tles.

The Slytherin team was stand­ing wait­ing for them. They, too, were wear­ing those sil­ver crown-​shaped badges. The new Cap­tain, Mon­tague, was built along the same lines as Dud­ley Durs­ley, with mas­sive fore­arms like hairy hams. Be­hind him lurked Crabbe and Goyle, al­most as large, blink­ing stupid­ly in the sun­light, swing­ing their new Beat­ers' bats. Mal­foy stood to one side, the sun­light gleam­ing on his white-​blond head. He caught Har­ry's eye and smirked, tap­ping the crown-​shaped badge on his chest.

'Cap­tains, shake hands,' or­dered the ref­er­ee Madam Hooch, as An­geli­na and Mon­tague reached each oth­er. Har­ry could tell that Mon­tague was try­ing to crush An­geli­na's fin­gers, though she did not wince. 'Mount your brooms…'

Madam Hooch placed her whis­tle in her mouth and blew.

The balls were re­leased and the four­teen play­ers shot up­wards. Out of the cor­ner of his eye Har­ry saw Ron streak off to­wards the goal­hoops. Har­ry zoomed high­er, dodg­ing a Bludger, and set off on a wide lap of the pitch, gaz­ing around for a glint of gold; on the oth­er side of the sta­di­um, Dra­co Mal­foy was do­ing ex­act­ly the same.

'And it's John­son -John­son with the Quaf­fle, what a play­er that girl is, I've been say­ing it for years but she still won't go out with me -'

'JOR­DAN!' yelled Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'- just a fun fact, Pro­fes­sor, adds a bit of in­ter­est - and she's ducked War­ring­ton, she's passed Mon­tague, she's — ouch - been hit from be­hind by a Bludger from Crabbe… Mon­tague catch­es the Quaf­fle, Mon­tague head­ing back up the pitch and - nice Bludger there from George Weasley, that's a Bludger to the head for Mon­tague, he drops the Quaf­fle, caught by Katie Bell, Katie Bell of Gryffind­or re­verse-​pass­es to Ali­cia Spin­net and Spin­net's away -'

Lee Jor­dan's com­men­tary rang through the sta­di­um and Har­ry lis­tened as hard as he could through the wind whistling in his ears and the din of the crowd, all yelling and boo­ing and singing.

'- dodges War­ring­ton, avoids a Bludger - close call, Ali­cia - and the crowd are lov­ing this, just lis­ten to them, what's that they're singing?'

And as Lee paused to lis­ten, the song rose loud and clear from the sea of green and sil­ver in the Slytherin sec­tion of the stands:

'Weasley can­not save a thing, He can­not block a sin­gle ring, That's why Slytherins all sing: Weasley is our King.

'Weasley was born in a bin He al­ways lets the Quaf­fle in Weasley will make sure we win Weasley is our King.'

'— and Ali­cia pass­es back to An­geli­na!' Lee shout­ed, and as Har­ry swerved, his in­sides boil­ing at what he had just heard, he knew Lee was try­ing to drown out the words of the song. 'Come on now,

An­geli­na — looks like she's got just the Keep­er to beat! - SHE SHOOTS - SHE - aaaah…'

Bletch­ley, the Slytherin Keep­er, had saved the goal; he threw the Quaf­fle to War­ring­ton who sped off with it, zig-​zag­ging in be­tween Ali­cia and Katie; the singing from be­low grew loud­er and loud­er as he drew near­er and near­er Ron.

'Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He al­ways lets the Quaf­fle in Weasley is our King.'

Har­ry could not help him­self: aban­don­ing his search for the Snitch, he wheeled around to watch Ron, a lone fig­ure at the far end of the pitch, hov­er­ing be­fore the three goal­hoops while the mas­sive War­ring­ton pelt­ed to­wards him.

'- and it's War­ring­ton with the Quaf­fle, War­ring­ton head­ing for goal, he's out of Bludger range with just the Keep­er ahead -'

A great swell of song rose from the Slytherin stands be­low:

'Weasley can­not save a thing, He can­not block a sin­gle ring…"

'- so it's the first test for new Gryffind­or Keep­er Weasley, broth­er of Beat­ers Fred and George, and a promis­ing new tal­ent on the team - come on, Ron!'

But the scream of de­light came from the Slytherins' end: Ron had dived wild­ly, his arms wide, and the Quaf­fle had soared be­tween them straight through Ron's cen­tral hoop.

'Slytherin score!' came Lee's voice amid the cheer­ing and boo­ing from the crowds be­low, 'so that's ten-​nil to Slytherin - bad luck, Ron.'

The Slytherins sang even loud­er:

'WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN

HE AL­WAYS LETS THE QUAF­FLE IN…'

'- and Gryffind­or back in pos­ses­sion and it's Katie Bell tank­ing up the pitch -' cried Lee valiant­ly, though the singing was now so deaf­en­ing that he could hard­ly make him­self heard above it.

'WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN WEASLEY IS OUR KING…'

'Har­ry, WHAT ARE YOU DO­ING?' screamed An­geli­na, soar­ing past him to keep up with Katie. 'GET GO­ING!'

Har­ry re­alised he had been sta­tion­ary in midair for over a minute, watch­ing the progress of the match with­out spar­ing a thought for the where­abouts of the Snitch; hor­ri­fied, he went in­to a dive and start­ed cir­cling the pitch again, star­ing around, try­ing to ig­nore the cho­rus now thun­der­ing through the sta­di­um:

'WEASLEY IS OUR K1NC, WEASLEY IS OUR KING…'

There was no sign of the Snitch any­where he looked; Mal­foy was still cir­cling the sta­di­um just as he was. They passed one an­oth­er mid­way around the pitch, go­ing in op­po­site di­rec­tions, and Har­ry heard Mal­foy singing loud­ly:

'WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN…'

'— and it's War­ring­ton again,' bel­lowed Lee, 'who pass­es to Pucey, Pucey's off past Spin­net, come on now, An­geli­na, you can take him - turns out you can't - but nice Bludger from Fred Weasley, I mean, George Weasley, oh, who cares, one of them, any­way, and War­ring­ton drops the Quaf­fle and Katie Bell — er - drops it, too - so that's Mon­tague with the Quaf­fle, Slytherin Cap­tain Mon­tague takes the Quaf­fle and he's off up the pitch, come on now, Gryffind­or, block him!'

Har­ry zoomed around the end of the sta­di­um be­hind the Slytherin goal­hoops, will­ing him­self not to look at what was go­ing on at Ron's end. As he sped past the Slytherin Keep­er, he heard Bletch­ley singing along with the crowd be­low:

'WEASLEY CAN­NOT SAVE A TH7NG…"

'- and Pucey's dodged Ali­cia again and he's head­ing straight for goal, stop it, Ron!'

Har­ry did not have to look to see what had hap­pened: there was a ter­ri­ble groan from the Gryffind­or end, cou­pled with fresh screams and ap­plause from the Slytherins. Look­ing down, Har­ry saw the pug-​faced Pan­sy Parkin­son right at the front of the stands, her back to the pitch as she con­duct­ed the Slytherin sup­port­ers who were roar­ing:

THAT'S WHY SLYTHERINS ALL SING WEASLEY IS OUR KING.'

But twen­ty-​nil was noth­ing, there was still time for Gryffind­or to catch up or catch the Snitch. A few goals and they would be in the lead as usu­al, Har­ry as­sured him­self, bob­bing and weav­ing through the oth­er play­ers in pur­suit of some­thing shiny that turned out to be Mon­tague's watch­strap.

But Ron let in two more goals. There was an edge of pan­ic in Har­ry's de­sire to find the Snitch now. If he could just get it soon and fin­ish the game quick­ly.

'- and Katie Bell of Gryffind­or dodges Pucey, ducks Mon­tague, nice swerve, Katie, and she throws to John­son, An­geli­na John­son takes the Quaf­fle, she's past War­ring­ton, she's head­ing for goal, come on now, An­geli­na - GRYFFIND­OR SCORE! It's forty-​ten, forty-​ten to Slytherin and Pucey has the Quaf­fle

Har­ry could hear Lu­na's lu­di­crous li­on hat roar­ing amidst the Gryffind­or cheers and felt heart­ened; on­ly thir­ty points in it, that was noth­ing, they could pull back eas­ily. Har­ry ducked a Bludger that Crabbe had sent rock­et­ing in his di­rec­tion and re­sumed his fran­tic scour­ing of the pitch for the Snitch, keep­ing one eye on Mal­foy in case he showed signs of hav­ing spot­ted it, but Mal­foy, like him, was con­tin­uing to soar around the sta­di­um, search­ing fruit­less­ly…

'— Pucey throws to War­ring­ton, War­ring­ton to Mon­tague, Mon­tague back to Pucey -John­son in­ter­venes, John­son takes the

Quaf­fle, John­son to Bell, this looks good - I mean bad - Bells hit by a Bludger from Goyle of Slytherin and it's Pucey in pos­ses­sion

'WEASLEY WAS BORN IN A BIN

HE AL­WAYS LETS THE QUAF­FLE IN ->.

WEASLEY WILL MAKE SURE WE WIN

But Har­ry had seen it at last: the tiny flut­ter­ing Gold­en Snitch was hov­er­ing feet from the ground at the Slytherin end of the pitch.

He dived…

In a mat­ter of sec­onds, Mal­foy was streak­ing out of the sky on Har­ry's left, a green and sil­ver blur ly­ing flat on his broom…

The Snitch skirt­ed the foot of one of the goal­hoops and scoot­ed off to­wards the oth­er side of the stands; its change of di­rec­tion suit­ed Mal­foy, who was near­er; Har­ry pulled his Fire­bolt around, he and Mal­foy were now neck and neck…

Feet from the ground, Har­ry lift­ed his right hand from his broom, stretch­ing to­wards the Snitch… to his right, Mal­foy's arm ex­tend­ed too, was reach­ing, grop­ing…

It was over in two breath­less, des­per­ate, windswept sec­onds -Har­ry's fin­gers closed around the tiny, strug­gling ball - Mal­foy's fin­ger­nails scrab­bled the back of Har­rys hand hope­less­ly - Har­ry pulled his broom up­wards, hold­ing the strug­gling ball in his hand and the Gryffind­or spec­ta­tors screamed their ap­proval…

They were saved, it did not mat­ter that Ron had let in those goals, no­body would re­mem­ber as long as Gryffind­or had won -

WHAM.

A Bludger hit Har­ry square­ly in the small of the back and he flew for­wards off his broom. Luck­ily he was on­ly five or six feet above the ground, hav­ing dived so low to catch the Snitch, but he was wind­ed all the same as he land­ed flat on his back on the frozen pitch. He heard Madam Hooch's shrill whis­tle, an up­roar in the stands com­pound­ed of cat­calls, an­gry yells and jeer­ing, a thud, then An­geli­nas fran­tic voice.

'Are you all right?'

'Course I am,' said Har­ry grim­ly, tak­ing her hand and al­low­ing her to pull him to his feet. Madam Hooch was zoom­ing to­wards one of the Slytherin play­ers above him, though he could not see who it was from this an­gle.

'It was that thug Crabbe,' said An­geli­na an­gri­ly, 'he whacked the Bludger at you the mo­ment he saw you'd got the Snitch - but we won, Har­ry, we won!'

Har­ry heard a snort from be­hind him and turned around, still hold­ing the Snitch tight­ly in his hand: Dra­co Mal­foy had land­ed close by. White-​faced with fury, he was still man­ag­ing to sneer.

'Saved Weasley's neck, haven't you?' he said to Har­ry. 'I've nev­er seen a worse Keep­er… but then he was born in a bin… did you like my lyrics, Pot­ter?'

Har­ry didn't an­swer. He turned away to meet the rest of the team who were now land­ing one by one, yelling and punch­ing the air in tri­umph; all ex­cept Ron, who had dis­mount­ed from his broom over by the goal­posts and seemed to be mak­ing his way slow­ly back to the chang­ing rooms alone.

'We want­ed to write an­oth­er cou­ple of vers­es!' Mal­foy called, as Katie and Ali­cia hugged Har­ry. 'But we couldn't find rhymes for fat and ug­ly - we want­ed to sing about his moth­er, see -'

Talk about sour grapes,' said An­geli­na, cast­ing Mal­foy a dis­gust­ed look.

'- we couldn't fit in use­less los­er ei­ther - for his fa­ther, you know -'

Fred and George had re­alised what Mal­foy was talk­ing about. Halfway through shak­ing Har­ry's hand, they stiff­ened, look­ing round at Mal­foy.

'Leave it!' said An­geli­na at once, tak­ing Fred by the arm. 'Leave it, Fred, let him yell, he's just sore he lost, the jumped-​up lit­tle -'

'- but you like the Weasleys, don't you, Pot­ter?' said Mal­foy, sneer­ing. 'Spend hol­idays there and ev­ery­thing, don't you? Can't see how you stand the stink, but I sup­pose when you've been dragged up by Mug­gles, even the Weasleys' hov­el smells OK -'

Har­ry grabbed hold of George. Mean­while, it was tak­ing the com­bined ef­forts of An­geli­na, Ali­cia and Katie to stop Fred leap­ing on Mal­foy, who was laugh­ing open­ly. Har­ry looked around for

Madam Hooch, but she was still be­rat­ing Crabbe for his il­le­gal Sludger at­tack.

'Or per­haps,' said Mal­foy, leer­ing as he backed away, 'you can re­mem­ber what your moth­er's house stank like, Pot­ter, and Weasleys pigsty re­minds you of it —'

Har­ry was not aware of re­leas­ing George, all he knew was that a sec­ond lat­er both of them were sprint­ing to­wards Mal­foy. He had com­plete­ly for­got­ten that all the teach­ers were watch­ing: all he want­ed to do was cause Mal­foy as much pain as pos­si­ble; with no time to draw out his wand, he mere­ly drew back the fist clutch­ing the Snitch and sank it as hard as he could in­to Mal­foys stom­ach -

'Har­ry! HAR­RY! GEORGE! NO/'

He could hear girls' voic­es scream­ing, Mal­foy yelling, George swear­ing, a whis­tle blow­ing and the bel­low­ing of the crowd around him, but he did not care. Not un­til some­body in the vicin­ity yelled 'Im­ped­imen­ta!' and he was knocked over back­wards by the force of the spell, did he aban­don the at­tempt to punch ev­ery inch of Mal­foy he could reach.

'What do you think you're do­ing?' screamed Madam Hooch, as Har­ry leapt to his feet. It seemed to have been her who had hit him with the Im­ped­iment Jinx; she was hold­ing her whis­tle in one hand and a wand in the oth­er; her broom lay aban­doned sev­er­al feet away. Mal­foy was curled up on the ground, whim­per­ing and moan­ing, his nose bloody; George was sport­ing a swollen lip; Fred was still be­ing forcibly re­strained by the three Chasers, and Crabbe was cack­ling in the back­ground. 'I've nev­er seen be­haviour like it - back up to the cas­tle, both of you, and straight to your Head of House's of­fice! Go! Now.''

Har­ry and George turned on their heels and marched off the pitch, both pant­ing, nei­ther say­ing a word to the oth­er. The howl­ing and jeer­ing of the crowd grew fainter and fainter un­til they reached the En­trance Hall, where they could hear noth­ing ex­cept the sound of their own foot­steps. Har­ry be­came aware that some­thing was still strug­gling in his right hand, the knuck­les of which he had bruised against Mal­foy's jaw. Look­ing down, he saw the Snitch's sil­ver wings pro­trud­ing from be­tween his fin­gers, strug­gling for re­lease.

They had bare­ly reached the door of Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's of­fice when she came march­ing along the cor­ri­dor be­hind them. She was wear­ing a Gryffind­or scarf, but tore it from her throat with shak­ing hands as she strode to­wards them, look­ing livid.

'In!' she said fu­ri­ous­ly, point­ing to the door. Har­ry and George en­tered. She strode around be­hind her desk and faced them, quiv­er­ing with rage as she threw the Gryffind­or scarf aside on to the floor.

'Well?' she said. 'I have nev­er seen such a dis­grace­ful ex­hi­bi­tion. Two on one! Ex­plain your­selves!'

'Mal­foy pro­voked us,' said Har­ry stiffly.

'Pro­voked you?' shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, slam­ming a fist on to her desk so that her tar­tan tin slid side­ways off it and burst open, lit­ter­ing the floor with Gin­ger Newts. 'He'd just lost, hadn't he? Of course he want­ed to pro­voke you! But what on earth he can have said that jus­ti­fied what you two —'

'He in­sult­ed my par­ents,' snarled George. 'And Har­ry's moth­er.'

'But in­stead of leav­ing it to Madam Hooch to sort out, you two de­cid­ed to give an ex­hi­bi­tion of Mug­gle du­elling, did you?' bel­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. 'Have you any idea what you've -?'

'Hem, hem.'

Har­ry and George both wheeled round. Do­lores Um­bridge was stand­ing in the door­way wrapped in a green tweed cloak that great­ly en­hanced her re­sem­blance to a gi­ant toad, and was smil­ing in the hor­ri­ble, sick­ly, omi­nous way that Har­ry had come to as­so­ciate with im­mi­nent mis­ery.

'May I help, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall?' asked Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in her most poi­sonous­ly sweet voice.

Blood rushed in­to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's face.

'Help?' she re­peat­ed, in a con­strict­ed voice. 'What do you mean, help?'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge moved for­wards in­to the of­fice, still smil­ing her sick­ly smile.

'Why, I thought you might be grate­ful for a lit­tle ex­tra au­thor­ity'

Har­ry would not have been sur­prised to see sparks fly from Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's nos­trils.

'You thought wrong,' she said, turn­ing her back on Um­bridge.

'Now, you two had bet­ter lis­ten close­ly. I do not care what provo­ca­tion Mal­foy of­fered you, I do not care if he in­sult­ed ev­ery fam­ily mem­ber you pos­sess, your be­haviour was dis­gust­ing and I am giv­ing each of you a week's worth of de­ten­tions! Do not look at me like that, Pot­ter, you de­serve it! And if ei­ther of you ev­er -'

'Hem, hem.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall closed her eyes as though pray­ing for pa­tience as she turned her face to­wards Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge again.

'Yes?'

'I think they de­serve rather more than de­ten­tions,' said Um­bridge, smil­ing still more broad­ly.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's eyes flew open.

'But un­for­tu­nate­ly' she said, with an at­tempt at a re­cip­ro­cal smile that made her look as though she had lock­jaw, 'it is what I think that counts, as they are in my House, Do­lores.'

'Well, ac­tu­al­ly, Min­er­va,' sim­pered Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, 'I think you'll find that what I think does count. Now, where is it? Cor­nelius just sent it… I mean,' she gave a false lit­tle laugh as she rum­maged in her hand­bag, 'the Min­is­ter just sent it… ah yes…"

She had pulled out a piece of parch­ment which she now un­furled, clear­ing her throat fuss­ily be­fore start­ing to read what it said.

'Hem, hem… “Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​five”.'

'Not an­oth­er one!' ex­claimed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall vi­olent­ly.

'Well, yes,' said Um­bridge, still smil­ing. 'As a mat­ter of fact, Min­er­va, it was you who made me see that we need­ed a fur­ther amend­ment… you re­mem­ber how you over­rode me, when I was un­will­ing to al­low the Gryffind­or Quid­ditch team to re-​form? How you took the case to Dum­ble­dore, who in­sist­ed that the team be al­lowed to play? Well, now, I couldn't have that. I con­tact­ed the Min­is­ter at once, and he quite agreed with me that the High In­quisi­tor has to have the pow­er to strip pupils of priv­ileges, or she - that is to say, I - would have less au­thor­ity than com­mon teach­ers! And you see now, don't you, Min­er­va, how right I was in at­tempt­ing to stop the Gryffind­or team re-​form­ing? Dread­ful tem­pers… any­way, I was read­ing out our amend­ment… hem, hem… “the High In­quisi­tor will hence­forth have supreme au­thor­ity over all pun­ish­ments, sanc­tions and re­moval of priv­ileges per­tain­ing to the stu­dents of Hog­warts, and the pow­er to al­ter such pun­ish­ments, sanc­tions and re­movals of priv­ileges as may have been or­dered by oth­er staff mem­bers. Signed, Cor­nelius Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, Or­der of Mer­lin First Class, etc., etc.”'

She rolled up the parch­ment and put it back in­to her hand­bag, still smil­ing.

'So… I re­al­ly think I will have to ban these two from play­ing Quid­ditch ev­er again,' she said, look­ing from Har­ry to George and back again.

Har­ry felt the Snitch flut­ter­ing mad­ly in his hand.

'Ban us?' he said, and his voice sound­ed strange­ly dis­tant. 'From play­ing… ev­er again?'

'Yes, Mr Pot­ter, I think a life­long ban ought to do the trick,' said Um­bridge, her smile widen­ing still fur­ther as she watched him strug­gle to com­pre­hend what she had said. 'You and Mr Weasley here. And I think, to be safe, this young man's twin ought to be stopped, too - if his team­mates had not re­strained him, I feel sure he would have at­tacked young Mr Mal­foy as well. I will want their broom­sticks con­fis­cat­ed, of course; I shall keep them safe­ly in my of­fice, to make sure there is no in­fringe­ment of my ban. But I am not un­rea­son­able, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall,' she con­tin­ued, turn­ing back to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall who was now stand­ing as still as though carved from ice, star­ing at her. The rest of the team can con­tin­ue play­ing, I saw no signs of vi­olence from any of them. Well… good af­ter­noon to you.'

And with a look of the ut­most sat­is­fac­tion, Um­bridge left the room, leav­ing a hor­ri­fied si­lence in her wake.

*

'Banned,' said An­geli­na in a hol­low voice, late that evening in the com­mon room. 'Banned. No Seek­er and no Beat­ers… what on earth are we go­ing to do?'

It did not feel as though they had won the match at all. Ev­ery­where Har­ry looked there were dis­con­so­late and an­gry faces; the team them­selves were slumped around the fire, all apart from Ron, who had not been seen since the end of the match.

'It's just so un­fair,' said Ali­cia numbly. 'I mean, what about

Crabbe and that Bludger he hit af­ter the whis­tle had been blown? Has she banned htm?'

'No,' said Gin­ny mis­er­ably; she and Hermione were sit­ting on ei­ther side of Har­ry. 'He just got lines, I heard Mon­tague laugh­ing about it at din­ner.'

'And ban­ning Fred when he didn't even do any­thing!' said Ali­cia fu­ri­ous­ly, pum­melling her knee with her fist.

'It's not my fault I didn't,' said Fred, with a very ug­ly look on his face, '1 would've pound­ed the lit­tle scum­bag to a pulp if you three hadn't been hold­ing me back.'

Har­ry stared mis­er­ably at the dark win­dow. Snow was falling. The Snitch he had caught ear­li­er was now zoom­ing around and around the com­mon room; peo­ple were watch­ing its progress as though hyp­no­tised and Crook­shanks was leap­ing from chair to chair, try­ing to catch it.

'I'm go­ing to bed,' said An­geli­na, get­ting slow­ly to her feet. 'Maybe this will all turn out to have been a bad dream… maybe I'll wake up to­mor­row and find we haven't played yet…'

She was soon fol­lowed by Ali­cia and Katie. Fred and George sloped off to bed some time lat­er, glow­er­ing at ev­ery­one they passed, and Gin­ny went not long af­ter that. On­ly Har­ry and Hermione were left be­side the fire.

'Have you seen Ron?' Hermione asked in a low voice.

Har­ry shook his head.

'I think he's avoid­ing us,' said Hermione. 'Where do you think he-?'

But at that pre­cise mo­ment, there was a creak­ing sound be­hind them as the Fat La­dy swung for­wards and Ron came clam­ber­ing through the por­trait hole. He was very pale in­deed and there was snow in his hair. When he saw Har­ry and Hermione, he stopped dead in his tracks.

'Where have you been?' said Hermione anx­ious­ly, spring­ing up.

'Walk­ing,' Ron mum­bled. He was still wear­ing his Quid­ditch things.

'You look frozen,' said Hermione. 'Come and sit down!'

Ron walked to the fire­side and sank in­to the chair fur­thest from Har­ry's, not look­ing at him. The stolen Snitch zoomed over their heads.

'I'm sor­ry,' Ron mum­bled, look­ing at his feet.

'What for?' said Har­ry.

'For think­ing I can play Quid­ditch,' said Ron. 'I'm go­ing to re­sign first thing to­mor­row.'

'If you re­sign,' said Har­ry testi­ly, 'there'll on­ly be three play­ers left on the team.' And when Ron looked puz­zled, he said, 'I've been giv­en a life­time ban. So've Fred and George.'

'What?' Ron yelped.

Hermione told him the full sto­ry; Har­ry could not bear to tell it again. When she had fin­ished, Ron looked more an­guished than ev­er.

This is all my fault -'

'You didn't make me punch Mal­foy,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

'- if I wasn't so ter­ri­ble at Quid­ditch -'

'- it's got noth­ing to do with that.'

'- it was that song that wound me up -'

'- it would've wound any­one up.'

Hermione got up and walked to the win­dow, away from the ar­gu­ment, watch­ing the snow swirling down against the pane.

'Look, drop it, will you!' Har­ry burst out. 'It's bad enough, with­out you blam­ing your­self for ev­ery­thing!'

Ron said noth­ing but sat gaz­ing mis­er­ably at the damp hem of his robes. Af­ter a while he said in a dull voice, 'This is the worst I've ev­er felt in my life.'

'Join the club,' said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

'Well,' said Hermione, her voice trem­bling slight­ly. 'I can think of one thing that might cheer you both up.'

'Oh yeah?' said Har­ry skep­ti­cal­ly.

'Yeah,' said Hermione, turn­ing away from the pitch-​black, snow-​flecked win­dow, a broad smile spread­ing across her face. 'Ha­grids back.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 20 - Hagrid's Tal e


Har­ry sprint­ed up to the boys' dor­mi­to­ries to fetch the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and the Ma­raud­er's Map from his trunk; he was so quick that he and Ron were ready to leave at least five min­utes be­fore Hermione hur­ried back down from the girls' dor­mi­to­ries, wear­ing scarf, gloves and one of her own knob­bly elf hats.

'Well, it's cold out there!' she said de­fen­sive­ly, as Ron clicked his tongue im­pa­tient­ly.

They crept through the por­trait hole and cov­ered them­selves hasti­ly in the Cloak - Ron had grown so much he now need­ed to crouch to pre­vent his feet show­ing - then, mov­ing slow­ly and cau­tious­ly, they pro­ceed­ed down the many stair­cas­es, paus­ing at in­ter­vals to check on the map for signs of Filch or Mrs. Nor­ris. They were lucky; they saw no­body but Near­ly Head­less Nick, who was glid­ing along ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly hum­ming some­thing that sound­ed hor­ri­bly like 'Weasley is our King'. They crept across the En­trance Hall and out in­to the silent, snowy grounds. With a great leap of his heart, Har­ry saw lit­tle gold­en squares of light ahead and smoke coil­ing up from Ha­grid's chim­ney. He set off at a quick march, the oth­er two jostling and bump­ing along be­hind him. They crunched ex­cit­ed­ly through the thick­en­ing snow un­til at last they reached the wood­en front door. When Har­ry raised his fist and knocked three times, a dog start­ed bark­ing fran­ti­cal­ly in­side.

'Ha­grid, its us!' Har­ry called through the key­hole.

'Shoul­da known!' said a gruff voice.

They beamed at each oth­er un­der the Cloak; they could tell by Ha­grid's voice that he was pleased. 'Bin home three sec­onds… out the way, Fang… out the way, yeh dozy dog…'

The bolt was drawn back, the door creaked open and Ha­grid's head ap­peared in the gap.

Hermione screamed.

'Mer­lin's beard, keep it down!' said Ha­grid hasti­ly, star­ing wild­ly over their heads. 'Un­der that Cloak, are yeh? Well, get in, get in!'

'I'm sor­ry!' Hermione gasped, as the three of them squeezed past Ha­grid in­to the house and pulled the Cloak off them­selves so he could see them. 'I just - oh, Ha­grid!'

'It's nuthin', it's nuthin'!' said Ha­grid hasti­ly, shut­ting the door be­hind them and hur­ry­ing to close all the cur­tains, but Hermione con­tin­ued to gaze up at him in hor­ror.

Ha­grid's hair was mat­ted with con­gealed blood and his left eye had been re­duced to a puffy slit amid a mass of pur­ple and black bruis­ing. There were many cuts on his face and hands, some of them still bleed­ing, and he was mov­ing gin­ger­ly, which made Har­ry sus­pect bro­ken ribs. It was ob­vi­ous that he had on­ly just got home; a thick black trav­el­ling cloak lay over the back of a chair and a haver­sack large enough to car­ry sev­er­al small chil­dren leaned against the wall in­side the door. Ha­grid him­self, twice the size of a nor­mal man, was now limp­ing over to the fire and plac­ing a cop­per ket­tle over it.

'What hap­pened to you?' Har­ry de­mand­ed, while Fang danced around them all, try­ing to lick their faces.

Told yeh, nuthin',' said Ha­grid firm­ly. 'Want a cup­pa?'

'Come off it,' said Ron, 'you're in a right state!'

'I'm tellin' yeh, I'm fine,' said Ha­grid, straight­en­ing up and turn­ing to beam at them all, but winc­ing. 'Blimey, it's good ter see yeh three again - had good sum­mers, did yeh?'

'Ha­grid, you've been at­tacked!' said Ron.

'Per the las' time, it's nuthin'!' said Ha­grid firm­ly.

'Would you say it was noth­ing if one of us turned up with a pound of mince in­stead of a face?' Ron de­mand­ed.

'You ought to go and see Madam Pom­frey, Ha­grid,' said Hermione anx­ious­ly, 'some of those cuts look nasty.'

'I'm dealin' with it, all righ'?' said Ha­grid re­pres­sive­ly.

He walked across to the enor­mous wood­en ta­ble that stood in the mid­dle of his cab­in and twitched aside a tea tow­el that had been ly­ing on it. Un­der­neath was a raw, bloody, green-​tinged steak slight­ly larg­er than the av­er­age car tyre.

'You're not go­ing to eat that, are you, Ha­grid?' said Ron, lean­ing in for a clos­er look. 'It looks poi­sonous.'

'It's's'posed ter look like that, it's drag­on meat,' Ha­grid said. 'An' I didn' get it ter eat.'

He picked up the steak and slapped it over the left side of his face. Green­ish blood trick­led down in­to his beard as he gave a soft moan of sat­is­fac­tion.

Tha's bet­ter. It helps with the stin­gin', yeh know.'

'So, are you go­ing to tell us what's hap­pened to you?' Har­ry asked.

'Can't, Har­ry. Top se­cret. More'n me job's worth ter tell yeh that.'

'Did the gi­ants beat you up, Ha­grid?' asked Hermione qui­et­ly.

Ha­grid's fin­gers slipped on the drag­on steak and it slid squelchi­ly on to his chest.

'Gi­ants?' said Ha­grid, catch­ing the steak be­fore it reached his belt and slap­ping it back over his face, 'who said any­thin' abou' gi­ants? Who yeh bin talkm' to? Who's told yeh what I've - who's said I've bin - eh?'

'We guessed,' said Hermione apolo­get­ical­ly.

'Oh, yeh did, did yeh?' said Ha­grid, sur­vey­ing her stern­ly with the eye that was not hid­den by the steak.

'It was kind of… ob­vi­ous,' said Ron. Har­ry nod­ded.

Ha­grid glared at them, then snort­ed, threw the steak back on to the ta­ble and strode over to the ket­tle, which was now whistling.

'Nev­er known kids like you three fer knowin' more'n yeh ough­ta,' he mut­tered, splash­ing boil­ing wa­ter in­to three of his buck­et-​shaped mugs. 'An' I'm not com­pli­mentin' yeh, nei­ther. Nosy, some'd call it. In­ter­ferin'.'

But his beard twitched.

'So you have been to look for gi­ants?' said Har­ry, grin­ning as he sat down at the ta­ble.

Ha­grid set tea in front of each of them, sat down, picked up his steak again and slapped it back over his face.

'Yeah, all righ',' he grunt­ed, 'I have.'

'And you found them?' said Hermione in a hushed voice.

'Well, they're not that dif­fi­cult ter find, ter be hon­est,' said Ha­grid. 'Pret­ty big, see.'

'Where are they?' said Ron.

'Moun­tains,' said Ha­grid un­help­ful­ly.

'So why don't Mug­gles -?'

They do,' said Ha­grid dark­ly. 'On'y their deaths are al­ways put down ter moun­taineerin' ac­ci­dents, aren' they?'

He ad­just­ed the steak a lit­tle so that it cov­ered the worst of the bruis­ing.

'Come on, Ha­grid, tell us what you've been up to!' said Ron. Tell us about be­ing at­tacked by the gi­ants and Har­ry can tell you about be­ing at­tacked by the De­men­tors -'

Ha­grid choked in his mug and dropped his steak at the same time; a large quan­ti­ty of spit, tea and drag­on blood was sprayed over the ta­ble as Ha­grid coughed and splut­tered and the steak slid, with a soft splat, on to the floor.

'Whad­da yeh mean, at­tacked by De­men­tors?' growled Ha­grid.

'Didn't you know?' Hermione asked him, wide-​eyed.

'I don' know any­thin' that's bin hap­penin' since I left. I was on a se­cret mis­sion, wasn' I, didn' wan' owls fol­lowin' me all over the place - rud­dy De­men­tors! Yeh're not se­ri­ous?'

'Yeah, I am, they turned up in Lit­tle Whing­mg and at­tacked my cousin and me, and then the Min­istry of Mag­ic ex­pelled me -'

'WHAT?'

'- and I had to go to a hear­ing and ev­ery­thing, but tell us about the gi­ants first.'

'You were ex­pelled!'

Tell us about your sum­mer and I'll tell you about mine.'

Ha­grid glared at him through his one open eye. Har­ry looked right back, an ex­pres­sion of in­no­cent de­ter­mi­na­tion on his face.

'Oh, all righ',' Ha­grid said in a re­signed voice.

He bent down and tugged the drag­on steak out of Fang's mouth.

'Oh, Ha­grid, don't, it's not hy­gien—' Hermione be­gan, but Ha­grid had al­ready slapped the meat back over his swollen eye.

He took an­oth­er for­ti­fy­ing gulp of tea, then said, 'Well, we set off righ' af­ter term end­ed -'

'Madame Maxime went with you, then?' Hermione in­ter­ject­ed.

'Yeah, tha's righ',' said Ha­grid, and a soft­ened ex­pres­sion ap­peared on the few inch­es of face that were not ob­scured by beard or green steak. 'Yeah, it was jus' the pair of us. An' I'll tell yeh this, she's not afraid of rough­in' it, Olympe. Yeh know, she's a fine, well-​dressed wom­an, an' knowin' where we was goin' I won­dered 'ow she'd feel abou' clam­berin' over boul­ders an' sleepin' in caves an' tha', bu' she nev­er com­plained once.'

'You knew where you were go­ing?' Har­ry re­peat­ed. 'You knew where the gi­ants were?'

'Well, Dum­ble­dore knew, an' he told us,' said Ha­grid.

'Are they hid­den?' asked Ron. 'Is it a se­cret, where they are?'

'Not re­al­ly' said Ha­grid, shak­ing his shag­gy head. 'It's jus' that mos' wiz­ards aren' both­ered where they are,'s'long as it's a good long way away. But where they are's very dif­fi­cult ter get ter, fer hu­mans any­way, so we need­ed Dum­ble­dore's in­struc­tions. Took us abou' a month ter get there -'

'A month?' said Ron, as though he had nev­er heard of a jour­ney last­ing such a ridicu­lous­ly long time. 'But - why couldn't you just grab a Portkey or some­thing?'

There was an odd ex­pres­sion in Ha­grid's un­ob­scured eye as he sur­veyed Ron; it was al­most pity­ing.

'We're bein' watched, Ron,' he said gruffly.

'What d'you mean?'

'Yeh don' un­der­stand,' said Ha­grid. The Min­istry's keepin' an eye on Dum­ble­dore an' any­one they reck­on's in league with 'im, an' -'

'We know about that,' said Har­ry quick­ly keen to hear the rest of Ha­grid's sto­ry, 'we know about the Min­istry watch­ing Dum­ble­dore -'

'So you couldn't use mag­ic to get there?' asked Ron, look­ing thun­der­struck, 'you had to act like Mug­gles all the way?'

'Well, not ex­act­ly all the way' said Ha­grid cagi­ly. 'We jus' had ter be care­ful, 'cause Olympe an' me, we stick out a bit —'

Ron made a sti­fled noise some­where be­tween a snort and a sniff and hasti­ly took a gulp of tea.

'- so we're not hard ter fol­low. We was pre­tendin' we was goin' on hol­iday to­geth­er, so we got in­ter France an' we made like we

I

was headin' fer where Olym­pes school is, 'cause we knew we was bein' tailed by some­one from the Min­istry. We had to go slow, 'cause I'm not re­al­ly's'posed ter use mag­ic an' we knew the Min­istry'd be lookin' fer a rea­son ter run us in. But we man­aged ter give the berk tailin' us the slip round abou' Dee-​John —'

'Ooooh, Di­jon?' said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly. 'I've been there on hol­iday, did you see -?'

She fell silent at the look on Ron's face.

'We chanced a bit o' mag­ic af­ter that an' it wasn' a bad jour­ney. Ran in­ter a cou­ple o' mad trolls on the Pol­ish bor­der an' I had a sligh' dis­agree­ment with a vam­pire in a pub in Min­sk, bu' apart from tha' couldn't'a bin smoother.

'An' then we reached the place, an' we start­ed trekkin' up through the moun­tains, lookin' fer signs of 'em…

We had ter lay off the mag­ic once we got near 'em. Part­ly 'cause they don' like wiz­ards an' we didn' want ter put their backs up too soon, an' part­ly 'cause Dum­ble­dore had warned us You-​Know-​Who was bound ter be af­ter the gi­ants an' all. Said it was odds on he'd sent a mes­sen­ger off ter them al­ready. Told us ter be very care­ful of draw­in' at­ten­tion ter our­selves as we got near­er in case there was Death Eaters around.'

Ha­grid paused for a long draught of tea.

'Go on!' said Har­ry ur­gent­ly.

'Found 'em,' said Ha­grid bald­ly. 'Went over a ridge one nigh' an' there they was, spread ou' un­der­neath us. Lit­tle fires burnin' be­low an' huge shad­ows… it was like watchin' bits o' the moun­tain movin'.'

'How big are they?' asked Ron in a hushed voice.

'Bout twen­ty feet,' said Ha­grid ca­su­al­ly. 'Some o' the big­ger ones migh­ta bin twen­ty-​five.'

'And how many were there?' asked Har­ry.

'I reck­on abou' sev­en­ty or eighty,' said Ha­grid.

'Is that all?' said Hermione.

'Yep,' said Ha­grid sad­ly, 'eighty left, an' there was loads once, mus­ta bin a hun­dred diff'rent tribes from all over the world. Bu' they've bin dyin' out fer ages. Wiz­ards killed a few, o' course, bu' most­ly they killed each oth­er, an' now they're dyin' out faster than ev­er. They're not made ter live bunched up to­geth­er like tha'. Dum­ble­dore says it's our fault, it was the wiz­ards who forced 'em to go an' made 'em live a good long way from us an' they had no choice bu' ter stick to­geth­er fer their own pro­tec­tion.'

'So,' said Har­ry, 'y°u saw them and then what?'

'Well, we wait­ed till morn­ing, didn' want ter go sneakin' up on 'em in the dark, fer our own safe­ty,' said Ha­grid. "Bout three in the mornin' they fell asleep jus' where they was sit­tin'. We didn' dare sleep. Fer one thing, we want­ed ter make sure none of 'em woke up an' came up where we were, an' fer an­oth­er, the snorin' was un­be­liev­able. Caused an avalanche near mornin'.

'Any­way, once it was light we wen' down ter see 'em.'

'Just like that?' said Ron, look­ing awestruck. 'You just walked right in­to a gi­ant camp?'

'Well, Dum­ble­dore'd told us how ter do it,' said Ha­grid. 'Give the Gurg gifts, show some re­spect, yeh know.'

'Give the what gifts?' asked Har­ry.

'Oh, the Gurg - means the chief.'

'How could you tell which one was the Gurg?' asked Ron.

Ha­grid grunt­ed in amuse­ment.

'No prob­lem,' he said. 'He was the biggest, the ugli­est an' the lazi­est. Sit­tin' there wait­in' ter be brought food by the oth­ers. Dead goats an' such like. Name o' Karkus. I'd put him at twen­ty-​two, twen­ty-​three feet an' the weight o' a cou­ple o' bull ele­phants. Skin like rhi­no hide an' all.'

'And you just walked up to him?' said Hermione breath­less­ly.

'Well… down ter him, where he was lyin' in the val­ley. They was in this dip be­tween four pret­ty high moun­tains, see, be­side a moun­tain lake, an' Karkus was lyin' by the lake roarin' at the oth­ers ter feed him an' his wife. Olympe an' I went down the moun­tain­side -'

'But didn't they try and kill you when they saw you?' asked Ron in­cred­ulous­ly.

'It was def'nite­ly on some o' their minds,' said Ha­grid, shrug­ging, 'but we did what Dum­ble­dore told us ter do, which was ter hold our gift up high an' keep our eyes on the Gurg an' ig­nore the oth­ers. So tha's what we did. An' the rest of 'em went qui­et an'

watched us pass an' we got right up ter Karkus's feet an' we bowed an' put our present down in front o' him.'

'What do you give a gi­ant?' asked Ron ea­ger­ly. 'Food?'

'Nah, he can get food all righ' fer him­self,' said Ha­grid. 'We took him mag­ic. Gi­ants like mag­ic, jus' don' like us usin' it against 'em. Any­way, that firs' day we gave 'im a branch o' Gubraithi­an fire.'

Hermione said, 'Wow!' soft­ly, but Har­ry and Ron both frowned in puz­zle­ment.

'A branch of -?'

'Ev­er­last­ing fire,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, 'you ought to know that by now. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's men­tioned it at least twice in class!'

'Well, any­way,' said Ha­grid quick­ly, in­ter­ven­ing be­fore Ron could an­swer back, 'Dum­ble­dore'd be­witched this branch to burn fer ev­er­more, which isn' some­thin' any wiz­ard could do, an' so I lies it down in the snow by Karkus's feet and says, “A gift to the Gurg of the gi­ants from Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, who sends his re­spect­ful greet­ings.'”

'And what did Karkus say?' asked Har­ry ea­ger­ly.

'Noth­in',' said Ha­grid. 'Didn' speak En­glish.'

'You're kid­ding!'

'Didn' mat­ter,' said Ha­grid im­per­turbably, 'Dum­ble­dore had warned us tha' migh' hap­pen. Karkus knew enough to yell fer a cou­ple o' gi­ants who knew our lin­go an' they trans­lat­ed fer us.'

'And did he like the present?' asked Ron.

'Oh yeah, it went down a storm once they un­der­stood what it was,' said Ha­grid, turn­ing his drag­on steak over to press the cool­er side to his swollen eye. 'Very pleased. So then I said, “Al­bus Dum­ble­dore asks the Gurg to speak with his mes­sen­ger when he re­turns to­mor­row with an­oth­er gift.”'

Why couldn't you speak to them that day?' asked Hermione.

'Dum­ble­dore want­ed us ter take it very slow,' said Ha­grid. 'Let 'em see we kept our promis­es. We'll come back to­mor­row with an­oth­er present, an' then we do come back with an­oth­er present - gives a good im­pres­sion, see? An' gives them time ter test out the firs' present an' find out it's a good one, an' get 'em ea­ger fer more. In any case, gi­ants like Karkus - over­load 'em with in­for­ma­tion an'

they'll kill yeh jus' to sim­pli­fy things. So we bowed out­ta the way an' went off an' found our­selves a nice lit­tle cave ter spend that night in an' the fol­lowin' mornin' we went back an' this time we found Karkus sit­tin' up wait­in' fer us lookin' all ea­ger.'

'And you talked to him?'

'Oh yeah. Firs' we pre­sent­ed him with a nice bat­tle hel­met -gob­lin-​made an' in­de­struc­tible, yeh know - an' then we sat down an' we talked.'

'What did he say?'

'Not much,' said Ha­grid. 'Lis­tened most­ly. Bu' there were good signs. He'd heard o' Dum­ble­dore, heard he'd ar­gued against the killin' o' the last gi­ants in Britain. Karkus seemed ter be quite int'rest­ed in what Dum­ble­dore had ter say. An' a few o' the oth­ers, 'spe­cial­ly the ones who had some En­glish, they gath­ered round an' lis­tened too. We were hope­ful when we left that day. Promised ter come back next mornin' with an­oth­er present…;.•

'Bu' that night it all wen' wrong.' ^:

What d'you mean?' said Ron quick­ly.

'Well, like I say, they're not meant ter live to­geth­er, gi­ants,' said Ha­grid sad­ly. 'Not in big groups like that. They can' help them­selves, they half kill each oth­er ev­ery few weeks. The men fight each oth­er an' the wom­en fight each oth­er; the rem­nants of the old tribes fight each oth­er, an' that's even with­out squab­bles over food an' the best fires an' sleepin' spots. Yeh'd think, seein' as how their whole race is abou' fin­ished, they'd lay off each oth­er, bu'…'

Ha­grid sighed deeply.

That night a fight broke out, we saw it from the mouth of our cave, lookin' down on the val­ley. Went on fer hours, yeh wouldn' be­lieve the noise. An' when the sun came up the snow was scar­let an' his head was lyin' at the bot­tom o' the lake.'

'Whose head?' gasped Hermione.

'Karkus's,' said Ha­grid heav­ily. There was a new Gurg, Gol­go­math.' He sighed deeply. 'Well, we hadn' bar­gained on a new Gurg two days af­ter we'd made friend­ly con­tact with the firs' one, an' we had a fun­ny feel­in' Gol­go­math wouldn' be so keen ter lis­ten to us, bu' we had ter try.'

i

'You went to speak to him?' asked Ron in­cred­ulous­ly. 'Af­ter you'd watched him rip off an­oth­er gi­ant's head?'

'Course we did,' said Ha­grid, 'we hadn' gone all that way ter give up af­ter two days! We wen' down with the next present we'd meant ter give ter Karkus.

'I knew it was no go be­fore I'd opened me mouth. He was sit­ting there wearin' Karkus's hel­met, leerin' at us as we got near­er. He's mas­sive, one o' the biggest ones there. Black hair an' matchin' teeth an' a neck­lace o' bones. Hu­man-​lookin' bones, some of 'em. Well, I gave it a go - held out a great roll o' drag­on skin - an' said, “A gift fer the Gurg of the gi­ants —” Nex' thing I knew, I was hangin' up­side-​down in the air by me feet, two of his mates had grabbed me.'

Hermione clapped her hands to her mouth.

'How did you get out of that?' asked Har­ry.

'Wouldn'ta done if Olympe hadn' bin there,' said Ha­grid. 'She pulled out her wand an' did some o' the fastes' spell­work I've ev­er seen. Rud­dy mar­vel­lous. Hit the two holdin' me right in the eyes with Con­junc­tiv­itus Curs­es an' they dropped me straight­away -bu' we were in trou­ble then, 'cause we'd used mag­ic against 'em, an' that's what gi­ants hate abou' wiz­ards. We had ter leg it an' we knew there was no way we was go­ing ter be able ter march in­ter the camp again.'

'Blimey, Ha­grid,' said Ron qui­et­ly.

'So, how come it's tak­en you so long to get home if you were on­ly there for three days?' asked Hermione.

We didn' leave af­ter three days!' said Ha­grid, look­ing out­raged. 'Dum­ble­dore was re­lyin' on us!'

'But you've just said there was no way you could go back!'

'Not by day­light we couldn', no. We just had ter re­think a bit. Spent a cou­ple o' days lyin' low up in the cave an' watchin'. An' wha' we saw wasn' good.'

'Did he rip off more heads?' asked Hermione, sound­ing squeamish.

'No,' said Ha­grid, 'I wish he had.'

'What d'you mean?'

'I mean we soon found out he didn' ob­ject ter all wiz­ards - just us.'

'Death Eaters?' said Har­ry quick­ly.

'Yep,' said Ha­grid dark­ly. 'Cou­ple of 'em were vis­itin' him ev'ry day, bringin' gifts ter the Gurg, an' he wasn' dan­gling them up­side-​down.'

'How d'you know they were Death Eaters?' said Ron.

'Be­cause I recog­nised one of 'em,' Ha­grid growled. 'Mac­nair, re­mem­ber him? Bloke they sent ter kill Buck­beak? Ma­ni­ac, he is. Likes killin' as much as Gol­go­math; no won­der they were get­tin' on so well.'

'So Mac­nairs per­suad­ed the gi­ants to join You-​Know-​Who?' said Hermione des­per­ate­ly.

'Hold yer Hip­pogriffs, I haven' fin­ished me sto­ry yet!' said Ha­grid in­dig­nant­ly, who, con­sid­er­ing he had not want­ed to tell them any­thing in the first place, now seemed to be rather en­joy­ing him­self. 'Me an' Olympe talked it over an' we agreed, jus'

'cause the Gurg looked like favourin' You-​Know-​Who didn' mean all of 'em would. We had ter try an' per­suade some o' the oth­ers, the ones who hadn' want­ed Gol­go­math as Gurg.'

'How could you tell which ones they were?' asked Ron.

'Well, they were the ones bein' beat­en to a pulp, weren' they?' said Ha­grid pa­tient­ly. The ones with any sense were keepin' out­ta Gol­go­math's way, hidin' out in caves roun' the gul­ly jus' like we were. So we de­cid­ed we'd go pokin' round the caves by night an' see if we couldn' per­suade a few o' them.'

'You went pok­ing around dark caves look­ing for gi­ants?' said Ron, with awed re­spect in his voice.

'Well, it wasn' the gi­ants who wor­ried us most,' said Ha­grid. We were more con­cerned abou' the Death Eaters. Dum­ble­dore had told us be­fore we wen' not ter tan­gle with 'em if we could avoid it, an' the trou­ble was they knew we was around — 'spect Gol­go­math told 'em abou' us. At night, when the gi­ants were sleepin' an' we want­ed ter be creepin' in­ter the caves, Mac­nair an' the oth­er one were sneakin' round the moun­tains lookin' fer us. I was hard put to stop Olympe jumpin' out at 'em,' said Ha­grid, the cor­ners of his mouth lift­ing his wild beard, 'she was rarin' ter at­tack 'em… she's some­thin' when she's roused, Olympe… fiery, yeh know… 'spect it's the French in her…'

Ha­grid gazed misty-​eyed in­to the fire. Har­ry al­lowed him thir­ty sec­onds of rem­inis­cence be­fore clear­ing his throat loud­ly.

'So, what hap­pened? Did you ev­er get near any of the oth­er gi­ants?'

'What? Oh… oh, yeah, we did. Yeah, on the third night af­ter Karkus was killed we crept out­ta the cave we'd bin hidin' in an' head­ed back down in­ter the gul­ly, keepin' our eyes skinned fer the Death Eaters. Got in­side a few o' the caves, no go - then, in abou' the sixth one, we found three gi­ants hidin'.'

'Cave must've been cramped,' said Ron.

'Wasn' room ter swing a Knea­zle,' said Ha­grid.

'Didn't they at­tack you when they saw you?' asked Hermione.

'Prob­ably woul­da done if they'd bin in any con­di­tion,' said Ha­grid, 'but they was bad­ly hurt, all three o' them; Gol­go­math's lot had beat­en 'em un­con­scious; they'd wo­ken up an' crawled in­ter the near­est shel­ter they could find. Any­way, one o' them had a bit of En­glish an'

'e trans­lat­ed fer the oth­ers, an' what we had ter say didn' seem ter go down too bad­ly. So we kep' goin' back, vis­itin' the wound­ed… I reck­on we had abou' six or sev­en o' them con­vinced at one poin'.'

'Six or sev­en?' said Ron ea­ger­ly. 'Well that's not bad - are they go­ing to come over here and start fight­ing You-​Know-​Who with us?'

But Hermione said, 'What do you mean “at one point”, Ha­grid?'

Ha­grid looked at her sad­ly.

'Gol­go­math's lot raid­ed the caves. The ones tha' sur­vived didn' wan' no more ter to do with us af­ter that.'

'So… so there aren't any gi­ants com­ing?' said Ron, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed.

'Nope,' said Ha­grid, heav­ing a deep sigh as he turned over his steak and ap­plied the cool­er side to his face, 'but we did wha' we meant ter do, we gave 'em Dum­ble­dore's mes­sage an' some o' them heard it an' I spect some o' them'll re­mem­ber it. Jus' maybe, them that don' want ter stay around Gol­go­math'll move out­ta the moun­tains, an' there's got­ta be a chance they'll re­mem­ber Dum­ble­dore's friend­ly to 'em… could be they'll come.'

Snow was fill­ing up the win­dow now. Har­ry be­came aware that the knees of his robes were soaked through: Fang was drool­ing with his head in Har­ry's lap.

'Ha­grid?' said Hermione qui­et­ly af­ter a while.

'Mmm?'

'Did you… was there any sign of… did you hear any­thing about your… your… moth­er while you were there?'

Ha­grid's un­ob­scured eye rest­ed up­on her and Hermione looked rather scared.

'I'm sor­ry… I… for­get it -'

'Dead,' Ha­grid grunt­ed. 'Died years ago. They told me.'

'Oh… I'm… I'm re­al­ly sor­ry' said Hermione in a very small voice. Ha­grid shrugged his mas­sive shoul­ders.

'No need,' he said short­ly. 'Can't re­mem­ber her much. Wasn' a great moth­er.'

They were silent again. Hermione glanced ner­vous­ly at Har­ry and Ron, plain­ly want­ing them to speak.

'But you still haven't ex­plained how you got in this state, Ha­grid,' Ron said, ges­tur­ing to­wards Ha­grid's blood­stained face.

'Or why you're back so late,' said Har­ry. 'Sir­ius says Madame Maxime got back ages ago -'

'Who at­tacked you?' said Ron.

'I haven' bin at­tacked!' said Ha­grid em­phat­ical­ly. 'I -'

But the rest of his words were drowned in a sud­den out­break of rap­ping on the door. Hermione gasped; her mug slipped through her fin­gers and smashed on the floor; Fang yelped. All four of them stared at the win­dow be­side the door­way. The shad­ow of some­body small and squat rip­pled across the thin cur­tain.

'It's her!' Ron whis­pered.

'Get un­der here!' Har­ry said quick­ly; seiz­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, he whirled it over him­self and Hermione while Ron tore around the ta­ble and dived un­der the Cloak as well. Hud­dled to­geth­er, they backed away in­to a cor­ner. Fang was bark­ing mad­ly at the door. Ha­grid looked thor­ough­ly con­fused.

'Ha­grid, hide our mugs!'

Ha­grid seized Har­ry and Ron's mugs and shoved them un­der the cush­ion in Fang's bas­ket. Fang was now leap­ing up at the door; Ha­grid pushed him out of the way with his foot and pulled it open.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was stand­ing in the door­way wear­ing her green tweed cloak and a match­ing hat with earflaps. Lips pursed, she leaned back so as to see Ha­grid's face; she bare­ly reached his navel.

'So,' she said slow­ly and loud­ly, as though speak­ing to some­body deaf. 'You're Ha­grid, are you?'

With­out wait­ing for an an­swer she strolled in­to the room, her bulging eyes rolling in ev­ery di­rec­tion.

'Get away,' she snapped, wav­ing her hand­bag at Fang, who had bound­ed up to her and was at­tempt­ing to lick her face.

'Er - I don' want ter be rude,' said Ha­grid, star­ing at her, 'but who the rud­dy hell are you?'

'My name is Do­lores Um­bridge.'

Her eyes were sweep­ing the cab­in. Twice they stared di­rect­ly in­to the cor­ner where Har­ry stood, sand­wiched be­tween Ron and Hermione.

'Do­lores Um­bridge?' Ha­grid said, sound­ing thor­ough­ly con­fused. 'I thought you were one o' them Min­istry - don' you work with Fudge?'

'I was Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter, yes,' said Um­bridge, now pac­ing around the cab­in, tak­ing in ev­ery tiny de­tail with­in, from the haver­sack against the wall to the aban­doned trav­el­ling cloak. 'I am now the De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er -'

Tha's brave of yeh,' said Ha­grid, 'there's not many'd take tha' job any more.'

'- and Hog­warts High In­quisi­tor,' said Um­bridge, giv­ing no sign that she had heard him.

'Wha's that?' said Ha­grid, frown­ing.

'Pre­cise­ly what I was go­ing to ask,' said Um­bridge, point­ing at the bro­ken shards of chi­na on the floor that had been Hermione's mug.

'Oh,' said Ha­grid, with a most un­help­ful glance to­wards the cor­ner where Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stood hid­den, 'oh, tha' was… was Fang. He broke a mug. So I had ter use this one in­stead.'

Ha­grid point­ed to the mug from which he had been drink­ing, one hand still clamped over the drag­on steak pressed to his eye. Um­bridge stood fac­ing him now, tak­ing in ev­ery de­tail of his ap­pear­ance in­stead of the cab­in's.

'I heard voic­es,' she said qui­et­ly.

'I was talkin' ter Fang,' said Ha­grid stout­ly.

'And was he talk­ing back to you?'

'Well… in a man­ner o' speakin',' said Ha­grid, look­ing un­com­fort­able. 'I some­times say Fang's near enough hu­man -'

There are three sets of foot­prints in the snow lead­ing from the cas­tle doors to your cab­in,' said Um­bridge sleek­ly.

Hermione gasped; Har­ry clapped a hand over her mouth. Luck­ily, Fang was sniff­ing loud­ly around the hem of Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's robes and she did not ap­pear to have heard.

'Well, I on'y jus' got back,' said Ha­grid, wav­ing an enor­mous hand at the haver­sack. 'Maybe some­one came ter call ear­li­er an' I missed 'em.'

'There are no foot­steps lead­ing away from your cab­in door.'

'Well, I… I don' know why that'd be…' said Ha­grid, tug­ging ner­vous­ly at his beard and again glanc­ing to­wards the cor­ner where Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stood, as though ask­ing for help. 'Erm…'

Um­bridge wheeled round and strode the length of the cab­in, look­ing around care­ful­ly. She bent and peered un­der the bed. She opened Ha­grid's cup­boards. She passed with­in two inch­es of where Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stood pressed against the wall; Har­ry ac­tu­al­ly pulled in his stom­ach as she walked by. Af­ter look­ing care­ful­ly in­side the enor­mous caul­dron Ha­grid used for cook­ing, she wheeled round again and said, 'What has hap­pened to you? How did you sus­tain those in­juries?'

Ha­grid hasti­ly re­moved the drag­on steak from his face, which in Har­rys opin­ion was a mis­take, be­cause the black and pur­ple bruis­ing all around his eye was now clear­ly vis­ible, not to men­tion the large amount of fresh and con­gealed blood on his face. 'Oh, 1… had a bit of an ac­ci­dent,' he said lame­ly.

'What sort of ac­ci­dent?'

'I - I tripped.'

'You tripped,' she re­peat­ed cool­ly.

'Yeah, tha's right. Over… over a friend's broom­stick. I don' fly, me­self. Well, look at the size o' me, I don' reck­on there's a broom­stick that'd hold me. Friend o' mine breeds Abrax­an hors­es, I dun­no if you've ev­er seen 'em, big beasts, winged, yeh know, I've had a bit of a ride on one o' them an' it was -'

'Where have you been?' asked Um­bridge, cut­ting cool­ly through Ha­grid's bab­bling.

'Where've I -?'

'Been, yes,' she said. Term start­ed two months ago. An­oth­er teach­er has had to cov­er your class­es. None of your col­leagues has been able to give me any in­for­ma­tion as to your where­abouts. You left no ad­dress. Where have you been?'

There was a pause in which Ha­grid stared at her with his new­ly un­cov­ered eye. Har­ry could al­most hear his brain work­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

'I - I've been away for me health,' he said.

'For your health,' re­peat­ed Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Her eyes trav­elled over Ha­grid's dis­coloured and swollen face; drag­on blood dripped gen­tly and silent­ly on to his waist­coat. 'I see.'

'Yeah,' said Ha­grid, 'bit o' - o' fresh air, yeh know -'

'Yes, as game­keep­er fresh air must be so dif­fi­cult to come by,' said Um­bridge sweet­ly. The small patch of Ha­grid's face that was not black or pur­ple, flushed.

'Well — change o' scene, yeh know -'

'Moun­tain scenery?' said Um­bridge swift­ly.

She knows, Har­ry thought des­per­ate­ly.

'Moun­tains?' Ha­grid re­peat­ed, clear­ly think­ing fast. 'Nope, South o' France fer me. Bit o' sun an'… an' sea.'

'Re­al­ly?' said Um­bridge. 'You don't have much of a tan.'

'Yeah… well… sen­si­tive skin,' said Ha­grid, at­tempt­ing an in­gra­ti­at­ing smile. Har­ry no­ticed that two of his teeth had been knocked out. Um­bridge looked at him cold­ly; his smile fal­tered. Then she hoist­ed her hand­bag a lit­tle high­er in­to the crook of her arm and said, 'I shall, of course, be in­form­ing the Min­is­ter of your late re­turn.'

'Righ',' said Ha­grid, nod­ding.

'You ought to know, too, that as High In­quisi­tor it is my un­for­tu­nate but nec­es­sary du­ty to in­spect my fel­low teach­ers. So I dare­say we shall meet again soon enough.'

She turned sharply and marched back to the door.

'You're in­spectin' us?' Ha­grid re­peat­ed blankly, look­ing af­ter her.

'Oh, yes,' said Um­bridge soft­ly, look­ing back at him with her hand on the door han­dle. The Min­istry is de­ter­mined to weed out un­sat­is­fac­to­ry teach­ers, Ha­grid. Good­night.'

She left, clos­ing the door be­hind her with a snap. Har­ry made to pull off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak but Hermione seized his wrist.

'Not yet,' she breathed in his ear. 'She might not be gone yet.'

Ha­grid seemed to be think­ing the same way; he stumped across the room and pulled back the cur­tain an inch or so.

'She's goin' back ter the cas­tle,' he said in a low voice. 'Blimey… in­spectin' peo­ple, is she?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, pulling off the Cloak. Trelawney's on pro­ba­tion al­ready…'

'Um… what sort of thing are you plan­ning to do with us in class, Ha­grid?' asked Hermione.

'Oh, don' you wor­ry abou' that, I've got a great load o' lessons planned,' said Ha­grid en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, scoop­ing up his drag­on steak from the ta­ble and slap­ping it over his eye again. 'I've bin keepin' a cou­ple o' crea­tures saved fer yer OWL year; you wait, they're some­thin' re­al­ly spe­cial.'

'Erm… spe­cial in what way?' asked Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly.

'I'm not sayin',' said Ha­grid hap­pi­ly. 'I don' want ter spoil the sur­prise.'

'Look, Ha­grid,' said Hermione ur­gent­ly, drop­ping all pre­tence, 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge won't be at all hap­py if you bring any­thing to class that's too dan­ger­ous.'

'Dan­ger­ous?' said Ha­grid, look­ing ge­nial­ly be­mused. 'Don' be sil­ly, I wouldn' give yeh any­thin' dan­ger­ous! I mean, all righ', they can look af­ter them­selves -'

'Ha­grid, you've got to pass Um­bridge's in­spec­tion, and to do that it would re­al­ly be bet­ter if she saw you teach­ing us how to look af­ter Por­locks, how to tell the dif­fer­ence be­tween Knarls and hedge­hogs, stuff like that!' said Hermione earnest­ly.

'But tha's not very in­ter­estin', Hermione,' said Ha­grid. The stuff I've got's much more im­pres­sive. I've bin bringin'

'em on fer years, I reck­on I've got the on'y do­mes­tic herd in Britain.'

'Ha­grid… please…' said Hermione, a note of re­al des­per­ation in her voice. 'Um­bridge is look­ing for any ex­cuse to get rid of

HA GRID'S TALE

teach­ers she thinks are too close to Dum­ble­dore. Please, Ha­grid, teach us some­thing dull that's bound to come up in our OWL.'

But Ha­grid mere­ly yawned wide­ly and cast a one-​eyed look of long­ing to­wards the vast bed in the cor­ner.

'Lis'en, it's bin a long day an' it's late,' he said, pat­ting Hermione gen­tly on the shoul­der, so that her knees gave way and hit the floor with a thud. 'Oh - sor­ry -' He pulled her back up by the neck of her robes. 'Look, don' you go wor­ryin' abou' me, I promise yeh I've got re­al­ly good stuff planned fer yer lessons now I'm back… now you lot had bet­ter get back up to the cas­tle, an' don' for­get ter wipe yer foot­prints out be­hind yeh!'

'I dun­no if you got through to him,' said Ron a short while lat­er when, hav­ing checked that the coast was clear, they walked back up to the cas­tle through the thick­en­ing snow, leav­ing no trace be­hind them due to the Oblit­er­ation Charm Hermione was per­form­ing as they went.

Then I'll go back again to­mor­row,' said Hermione de­ter­mined­ly. Til plan his lessons for him if I have to. I don't care if she throws out Trelawney but she's not get­ting rid of Ha­grid!'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 21 - The Eye of the Snake


Hermione ploughed her way back to Ha­grid's cab­in through two feet of snow on Sun­day morn­ing. Har­ry and Ron want­ed to go with her, but their moun­tain of home­work had reached an alarm­ing height again, so they re­mained grudg­ing­ly in the com­mon room, try­ing to ig­nore the glee­ful shouts drift­ing up from the grounds out­side, where stu­dents were en­joy­ing them­selves skat­ing on the frozen lake, to­bog­gan­ing and, worst of all, be­witch­ing snow­balls to zoom up to Gryffind­or Tow­er and rap hard on the win­dows.

'Oi!' bel­lowed Ron, fi­nal­ly los­ing pa­tience and stick­ing his head out of the win­dow, 'I am a pre­fect and if one more snow­ball hits this win­dow - OUCH!'

He with­drew his head sharply, his face cov­ered in snow.

'It's Fred and George,' he said bit­ter­ly, slam­ming the win­dow be­hind him. 'Gits…'

Hermione re­turned from Ha­grid's just be­fore lunch, shiv­er­ing slight­ly, her robes damp to the knees.

'So?' said Ron, look­ing up when she en­tered. 'Got all his lessons planned for him?'

'Well, I tried,' she said dul­ly, sink­ing in­to a chair be­side Har­ry. She pulled out her wand and gave it a com­pli­cat­ed lit­tle wave so that hot air streamed out of the tip; she then point­ed this at her robes, which be­gan to steam as they dried out. 'He wasn't even there when I ar­rived, I was knock­ing for at least half an hour. And then he came stump­ing out of the For­est -'

Har­ry groaned. The For­bid­den For­est was teem­ing with the kind of crea­tures most like­ly to get Ha­grid the sack. 'What's he keep­ing in there? Did he say?' he asked.

'No,' said Hermione mis­er­ably. 'He says he wants them to be a sur­prise. I tried to ex­plain about Um­bridge, but he just doesn't get it. He kept say­ing no­body in their right mind would rather study Knarls than Chi­maeras - oh, I don't think he's got a Chi­maera,' she added at the ap­palled look on Har­ry and Ron's faces, 'but that's not for lack of try­ing, from what he said about how hard it is to get eggs. I don't know how many times I told him he'd be bet­ter off fol­low­ing Grub­bly-​Plank's plan, I hon­est­ly don't think he lis­tened to half of what I said. He's in a bit of a fun­ny mood, you know. He still won't say how he got all those in­juries.'

Ha­grid's reap­pear­ance at the staff ta­ble at break­fast next day was not greet­ed by en­thu­si­asm from all stu­dents. Some, like Fred, George and Lee, roared with de­light and sprint­ed up the aisle be­tween the Gryffind­or and Huf­flepuff ta­bles to wring Ha­grid's enor­mous hand; oth­ers, like Par­vati and Laven­der, ex­changed gloomy looks and shook their heads. Har­ry knew that many of them pre­ferred Pro­fes­sor Grub­bly-​Plank's lessons, and the worst of it was that a very small, un­bi­ased part of him knew that they had good rea­son: Grub­bly-​Plank's idea of an in­ter­est­ing class was not one where there was a risk that some­body might have their head ripped off.

It was with a cer­tain amount of ap­pre­hen­sion that Har­ry, Ron and Hermione head­ed down to Ha­grid's on Tues­day, heav­ily muf­fled against the cold. Har­ry was wor­ried, not on­ly about what Ha­grid might have de­cid­ed to teach them, but al­so about how the rest of the class, par­tic­ular­ly Mal­foy and his cronies, would be­have if Um­bridge was watch­ing them.

How­ev­er, the High In­quisi­tor was nowhere to be seen as they strug­gled through the snow to­wards Ha­grid, who stood wait­ing for them on the edge of the For­est. He did not present a re­as­sur­ing sight; the bruis­es that had been pur­ple on Sat­ur­day night were now tinged with green and yel­low and some of his cuts still seemed to be bleed­ing. Har­ry could not un­der­stand this: had Ha­grid per­haps been at­tacked by some crea­ture whose ven­om pre­vent­ed the wounds it in­flict­ed from heal­ing? As though to com­plete the omi­nous pic­ture, Ha­grid was car­ry­ing what looked like half a dead cow over his shoul­der.

'We're workin' in here to­day!' Ha­grid called hap­pi­ly to the ap­proach­ing stu­dents, jerk­ing his head back at the dark trees be­hind him. 'Bit more shel­tered! Any­way, they pre­fer the dark.'

'What prefers the dark?' Har­ry heard Mal­foy say sharply to Crabbe and Goyle, a trace of pan­ic in his voice. 'What did he say prefers the dark - did you hear?'

Har­ry re­mem­bered the on­ly oth­er oc­ca­sion on which Mal­foy had en­tered the For­est be­fore now; he had not been very brave then, ei­ther. He smiled to him­self; af­ter the Quid­ditch match any­thing that caused Mal­foy dis­com­fort was all right with him.

'Ready?' said Ha­grid cheer­ful­ly, look­ing around at the class. 'Right, well, I've bin savin' a trip in­ter the For­est fer yer fifth year. Thought we'd go an' see these crea­tures in their nat­ural habi­tat. Now, what we're studyin' to­day is pret­ty rare, I reck­on I'm prob­ably the on'y per­son in Britain who's man­aged ter train 'em.'

'And you're sure they're trained, are you?' said Mal­foy, the pan­ic in his voice even more pro­nounced. 'On­ly it wouldn't be the first time you'd brought wild stuff to class, would it?'

The Slytherins mur­mured agree­ment and a few Gryffind­ors looked as though they thought Mal­foy had a fair point, too.

'Course they're trained,' said Ha­grid, scowl­ing and hoist­ing the dead cow a lit­tle high­er on his shoul­der.

'So what hap­pened to your face, then?' de­mand­ed Mal­foy.

'Mind yer own busi­ness!' said Ha­grid, an­gri­ly. 'Now, if yeh've fin­ished askin' stupid ques­tions, fol­low me!'

He turned and strode straight in­to the For­est. No­body seemed much dis­posed to fol­low. Har­ry glanced at Ron and Hermione, who sighed but nod­ded, and the three of them set off af­ter Ha­grid, lead­ing the rest of the class.

They walked for about ten min­utes un­til they reached a place where the trees stood so close­ly to­geth­er that it was as dark as twi­light and there was no snow at all on the ground. With a grunt, Ha­grid de­posit­ed his half a cow on the ground, stepped back and turned to face his class, most of whom were creep­ing from tree to tree to­wards him, peer­ing around ner­vous­ly as though ex­pect­ing to be set up­on at any mo­ment.

'Gath­er roun', gath­er roun',' Ha­grid en­cour­aged. 'Now, they'll be at­tract­ed by the smell o' the meat but I'm goin' ter give 'em a call any­way, 'cause they'll like ter know it's me.'

He turned, shook his shag­gy head to get the hair out of his face and gave an odd, shriek­ing cry that echoed through the dark trees like the call of some mon­strous bird. No­body laughed: most of them looked too scared to make a sound.

Ha­grid gave the shriek­ing cry again. A minute passed in which the class con­tin­ued to peer ner­vous­ly over their shoul­ders and around trees for a first glimpse of what­ev­er it was that was com­ing. And then, as Ha­grid shook his hair back for a third time and ex­pand­ed his enor­mous chest, Har­ry nudged Ron and point­ed in­to the black space be­tween two gnarled yew trees.

A pair of blank, white, shin­ing eyes were grow­ing larg­er through the gloom and a mo­ment lat­er the drag­onish face, neck and then skele­tal body of a great, black, winged horse emerged from the dark­ness. It sur­veyed the class for a few sec­onds, swish­ing its long black tail, then bowed its head and be­gan to tear flesh from the dead cow with its point­ed fangs.

A great wave of re­lief broke over Har­ry. Here at last was proof that he had not imag­ined these crea­tures, that they were re­al: Ha­grid knew about them too. He looked ea­ger­ly at Ron, but Ron was still star­ing around in­to the trees and af­ter a few sec­onds he whis­pered, 'Why doesn't Ha­grid call again?'

Most of the rest of the class were wear­ing ex­pres­sions as con­fused and ner­vous­ly ex­pec­tant as Ron's and were still gaz­ing ev­ery­where but at the horse stand­ing feet from them. There were on­ly two oth­er peo­ple who seemed to be able to see them: a stringy Slytherin boy stand­ing just be­hind Goyle was watch­ing the horse eat­ing with an ex­pres­sion of great dis­taste on his face; and Neville, whose eyes were fol­low­ing the swish­ing progress of the long black tail.

'Oh, an' here comes an­oth­er one!' said Ha­grid proud­ly, as a sec­ond black horse ap­peared out of the dark trees, fold­ed its leath­ery wings clos­er to its body and dipped its head to gorge on the meat. 'Now… put yer hands up, who can see 'em?'

Im­mense­ly pleased to feel that he was at last go­ing to un­der­stand the mys­tery of these hors­es, Har­ry raised his hand. Ha­grid nod­ded at him.

'Yeah… yeah, I knew you'd be able ter, Har­ry,' he said se­ri­ous­ly. 'An' you too, Neville, eh? An' -'

'Ex­cuse me,' said Mal­foy in a sneer­ing voice, 'but what ex­act­ly are we sup­posed to be see­ing?'

For an an­swer, Ha­grid point­ed at the cow car­cass on the ground. The whole class stared at it for a few sec­onds, then sev­er­al peo­ple gasped and Par­vati squealed. Har­ry un­der­stood why: bits of flesh strip­ping them­selves away from the bones and van­ish­ing in­to thin air had to look very odd in­deed.

'What's do­ing it?' Par­vati de­mand­ed in a ter­ri­fied voice, re­treat­ing be­hind the near­est tree. 'What's eat­ing it?'

Thes­trals,' said Ha­grid proud­ly and Hermione gave a soft 'Oh!' of com­pre­hen­sion at Har­ry's shoul­der. 'Hog­warts has got a whole herd of 'em in here. Now, who knows -?'

'But they're re­al­ly, re­al­ly un­lucky!' in­ter­rupt­ed Par­vati, look­ing alarmed. They're sup­posed to bring all sorts of hor­ri­ble mis­for­tune on peo­ple who see them. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney told me once -'

'No, no, no,' said Ha­grid, chuck­ling, 'tha's jus' su­per­sti­tion, that is, they aren' un­lucky, they're dead clever an' use­ful! Course, this lot don' get a lot o' work, it's main­ly jus' pullin' the school car­riages un­less Dum­ble­dore's takin' a long jour­ney an' don' want ter Ap­pa­rate - an' here's an­oth­er cou­ple, look -'

Two more hors­es came qui­et­ly out of the trees, one of them pass­ing very close .to Par­vati, who shiv­ered and pressed her­self clos­er to the tree, say­ing, 'I think I felt some­thing, I think it's near me!'

'Don' wor­ry, it won' hurt yen,' said Ha­grid pa­tient­ly. 'Righ', now, who can tell me why some o' yeh can see 'em an' some can't?'

Hermione raised her hand.

'Go on then,' said Ha­grid, beam­ing at her.

The on­ly peo­ple who can see Thes­trals,' she said, 'are peo­ple who have seen death.'

Tha's ex­act­ly right,' said Ha­grid solemn­ly, 'ten points ter Gryffind­or. Now, Thes­trals -'

'Hem, hem.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge had ar­rived. She was stand­ing a few feet away from Har­ry, wear­ing her green hat and cloak again, her clip­board at the ready. Ha­grid, who had nev­er heard Um­bridge's fake cough be­fore, was gaz­ing in some con­cern at the clos­est Thes­tral, ev­ident­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that it had made the sound.

'Hem, hem.'

'Oh, hel­lo!' Ha­grid said, smil­ing, hav­ing lo­cat­ed the source of the noise.

'You re­ceived the note I sent to your cab­in this morn­ing?' said Um­bridge, in the same loud, slow voice she had used with him ear­li­er, as though she were ad­dress­ing some­body both for­eign and very slow. Telling you that I would be in­spect­ing your les­son?'

'Oh, yeah,' said Ha­grid bright­ly. 'Glad yeh found the place all righ'! Well, as you can see - or, I dun­no - can you? We're doin' Thes­trals to­day -'

'I'm sor­ry?' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge loud­ly, cup­ping her hand around her ear and frown­ing. 'What did you say?'

Ha­grid looked a lit­tle con­fused.

'Er - Thes­trals!' he said loud­ly. 'Big - er - winged hors­es, yeh know!'

He flapped his gi­gan­tic arms hope­ful­ly. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge raised her eye­brows at him and mut­tered as she made a note on her clip­board: 'Has… to… re­sort… to… crude… sign… lan­guage.'

'Well… any­way…" said Ha­grid, turn­ing back to the class and look­ing slight­ly flus­tered, 'erm… what was I sayin'?'

'Ap­pears… to… have… poor… short… term… mem­ory,' mut­tered Um­bridge, loud­ly enough for ev­ery­one to hear her. Dra­co Mal­foy looked as though Christ­mas had come a month ear­ly; Hermione, on the oth­er hand, had turned scar­let with sup­pressed rage.

'Oh, yeah,' said Ha­grid, throw­ing an un­easy glance at Um­bridge's clip­board, but plough­ing on valiant­ly. 'Yeah, I was gonna tell yeh how come we got a herd. Yeah, so, we start­ed off with a male an' five fe­males. This one,' he pat­ted the first horse to have ap­peared, 'name o' Tene­brus, he's my spe­cial favourite, firs' one born here in the For­est -'

'Are you aware,' Um­bridge said loud­ly, in­ter­rupt­ing him, 'that the Min­istry of Mag­ic has clas­si­fied Thes­trals as “dan­ger­ous”?'

Har­ry's heart sank like a stone, but Ha­grid mere­ly chuck­led.

Thes­trals aren' dan­ger­ous! All righ', they might take a bite out­ta yeh if yeh re­al­ly an­noy them -'

'Shows… signs… of… plea­sure… at… idea… of… vi­olence,' mut­tered Um­bridge, scrib­bling on her clip­board again.

'No - come on!' said Ha­grid, look­ing a lit­tle anx­ious now. 'I mean, a dog'll bite if yeh bait it, won' it - but Thes­trals have jus' got a bad rep­uta­tion be­cause o' the death thing - peo­ple used ter think they were bad omens, didn' they? Jus' didn' un­der­stand, did they?'

Um­bridge did not an­swer; she fin­ished writ­ing her last note, then looked up at Ha­grid and said, again very loud­ly and slow­ly, 'Please con­tin­ue teach­ing as usu­al. I am go­ing to walk,' she mimed walk­ing (Mal­foy and Pan­sy Parkin­son were hav­ing silent fits of laugh­ter) 'among the stu­dents' (she point­ed around at in­di­vid­ual mem­bers of the class) 'and ask them ques­tions.' She point­ed at her mouth to in­di­cate talk­ing.

Ha­grid stared at her, clear­ly at a com­plete loss to un­der­stand why she was act­ing as though he did not un­der­stand nor­mal En­glish. Hermione had tears of fury in her eyes now.

'You hag, you evil hag!' she whis­pered, as Um­bridge walked to­wards Pan­sy Parkin­son. 'I know what you're do­ing, you aw­ful, twist­ed, vi­cious -'

'Erm… any­way,' said Ha­grid, clear­ly strug­gling to re­gain the flow of his les­son, 'so - Thes­trals. Yeah. Well, there's loads o' good stuff abou' them…'

'Do you find,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in a ring­ing voice to Pan­sy Parkin­son, 'that you are able to un­der­stand Pro­fes­sor Ha­grid when he talks?'

Just like Hermione, Pan­sy had tears in her eyes, but these were tears of laugh­ter; in­deed, her an­swer was al­most in­co­her­ent be­cause she was try­ing to sup­press her gig­gles.

'No… be­cause… well… it sounds… like grunt­ing a lot of the time

Um­bridge scrib­bled on her clip­board. The few un­bruised bits of Ha­grid's face flushed, but he tried to act as though he had not heard Pan­sy's an­swer.

'Er… yeah… good stuff abou' Thes­trals. Well, once they're tamed, like this lot, yeh'll nev­er be lost again. 'Mazin' sense o' di­rec­tion, jus' tell 'em where yeh want ter go -'

'As­sum­ing they can un­der­stand you, of course,' said Mal­foy loud­ly, and Pan­sy Parkin­son col­lapsed in a fit of re­newed gig­gles. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge smiled in­dul­gent­ly at them and then turned to Neville.

'You can see the Thes­trals, Long­bot­tom, can you?' she said.

Neville nod­ded.

'Who did you see die?' she asked, her tone in­dif­fer­ent.

'My… my grandad,' said Neville.

'And what do you think of them?' she said, wav­ing her stub­by hand at the hors­es, who by now had stripped a great deal of the car­cass down to bone.

'Erm,' said Neville ner­vous­ly, with a glance at Ha­grid. Well, they're… er… OK…"

'Stu­dents… are… too… in­tim­idat­ed… to… ad­mit… they… are… fright­ened,' mut­tered Um­bridge, mak­ing an­oth­er note on her clip­board.

'No!' said Neville, look­ing up­set. 'No, I'm not scared of them!'

'It's quite all right,' said Um­bridge, pat­ting Neville on the shoul­der with what she ev­ident­ly in­tend­ed to be an un­der­stand­ing smile, though it looked more like a leer to Har­ry. 'Well, Ha­grid,' she turned to look up at him again, speak­ing once more in that loud, slow voice, 'I think I've got enough to be get­ting along with. You will re­ceive' (she mimed tak­ing some­thing from the air in front of her) 'the re­sults of your in­spec­tion' (she point­ed at the clip­board) 'in ten days' time.' She held up ten stub­by lit­tle fin­gers, then, her smile wider and more toad­like than ev­er be­fore be­neath her green hat, she bus­tled from their midst, leav­ing Mal­foy and Pan­sy Parkin­son in fits of laugh­ter, Hermione ac­tu­al­ly shak­ing with fury and Neville look­ing con­fused and up­set.

That foul, ly­ing, twist­ing old gar­goyle!' stormed Hermione half an hour lat­er, as they made their way back up to the cas­tle through the chan­nels they had made ear­li­er in the snow. 'You see what she's up to? It's her thing about half-​breeds all over again - she's try­ing to make out Ha­grid's some kind of dimwit­ted troll, just be­cause he had a gi­ant­ess for a moth­er - and oh, it's not fair, that re­al­ly wasn't a bad les­son at all - I mean, all right, if it had been Blast-​End­ed Skrewts again, but Thes­trals are fine - in fact, for Ha­grid, they're re­al­ly good!'

'Um­bridge said they're dan­ger­ous,' said Ron.

'Well, it's like Ha­grid said, they can look af­ter them­selves,' said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly, 'and I sup­pose a teach­er like Grub­bly-​Plank wouldn't usu­al­ly show them to us be­fore NEWT lev­el, but, well, they are very in­ter­est­ing, aren't they? The way some peo­ple can see them and some can't! I wish I could.'

'Do you?' Har­ry asked her qui­et­ly.

She looked sud­den­ly hor­rorstruck.

'Oh, Har­ry - I'm sor­ry - no, of course I don't - that was a re­al­ly stupid thing to say.'

'It's OK,' he said quick­ly, 'don't wor­ry'

'I'm sur­prised so many peo­ple could see them,' said Ron. Three in a class -'

'Yeah, Weasley, we were just won­der­ing,' said a ma­li­cious voice. Un­heard by any of them in the muf­fling snow, Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle were walk­ing along right be­hind them. 'D'you reck­on if you saw some­one snuff it you'd be able to see the Quaf­fle bet­ter?'

He, Crabbe and Goyle roared with laugh­ter as they pushed past on their way to the cas­tle, then broke in­to a cho­rus of 'Weasley is our King'. Ron's ears turned scar­let.

'Ig­nore them, just ig­nore them,' in­toned Hermione, pulling out her wand and per­form­ing the charm to pro­duce hot air again, so that she could melt them an eas­ier path through the un­touched snow be­tween them and the green­hous­es.

*

De­cem­ber ar­rived, bring­ing with it more snow and a pos­itive avalanche of home­work for the fifth-​years. Ron and Hermione's pre­fect du­ties al­so be­came more and more oner­ous as Christ­mas ap­proached. They were called up­on to su­per­vise the dec­ora­tion of the cas­tle ('You try putting up tin­sel when Peeves has got the oth­er end and is try­ing to stran­gle you with it,' said Ron), to watch over first- and sec­ond-​years spend­ing their break-​times in­side be­cause of the bit­ter cold ('And they're cheeky lit­tle snot-​rags, you know, we def­inite­ly weren't that rude when we were in first year,' said Ron) and to pa­trol the cor­ri­dors in shifts with Ar­gus Filch, who sus­pect­ed that the hol­iday spir­it might show it­self in an out­break of wiz­ard du­els ('He's got dung for brains, that one,' said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly). They were so busy that Hermione had even stopped knit­ting elf hats and was fret­ting that she was down to her last three.

'All those poor elves I haven't set free yet, hav­ing to stay here over Christ­mas be­cause there aren't enough hats!'

Har­ry, who had not had the heart to tell her that Dob­by was tak­ing ev­ery­thing she made, bent low­er over his His­to­ry of Mag­ic es­say. In any case, he did not want to think about Christ­mas. For the first time in his school ca­reer, he very much want­ed to spend the hol­idays away from Hog­warts. Be­tween his Quid­ditch ban and wor­ry about whether or not Ha­grid was go­ing to be put on pro­ba­tion, he felt high­ly re­sent­ful to­wards the place at the mo­ment. The on­ly thing he re­al­ly looked for­ward to were the DA meet­ings, and they would have to stop over the hol­idays, as near­ly ev­ery­body in the DA would be spend­ing the time with their fam­ilies. Hermione was go­ing ski­ing with her par­ents, some­thing that great­ly amused Ron, who had nev­er heard of Mug­gles strap­ping nar­row strips of wood on to their feet to slide down moun­tains. Ron was go­ing home to The Bur­row. Har­ry en­dured sev­er­al days of en­vy be­fore Ron said, in re­sponse to Har­ry ask­ing him how he was go­ing to get home for Christ­mas: 'But you're com­ing too! Didn't I say? Mum wrote and told me to in­vite you weeks ago!'

Hermione rolled her eyes, but Har­ry's spir­its soared: the thought of Christ­mas at The Bur­row was tru­ly won­der­ful, though slight­ly marred by Har­ry's guilty feel­ing that he would not be able to spend the hol­iday with Sir­ius. He won­dered whether he could pos­si­bly per­suade Mrs. Weasley to in­vite his god­fa­ther for the fes­tiv­ities. Even though he doubt­ed whether Dum­ble­dore would per­mit Sir­ius to leave Grim­mauld Place any­way, he could not help but think Mrs. Weasley might not want him; they were so of­ten at log­ger­heads. Sir­ius had not con­tact­ed Har­ry at all since his last ap­pear­ance in the fire, and al­though Har­ry knew that with Um­bridge on con­stant watch it would be un­wise to at­tempt to con­tact him, he did not like to think of Sir­ius alone in his moth­er's old house, per­haps pulling a lone­ly crack­er with Kreach­er.

Har­ry ar­rived ear­ly in the Room of Re­quire­ment for the last DA meet­ing be­fore the hol­idays and was very glad he had, be­cause when the torch­es burst in­to flame he saw that Dob­by had tak­en it up­on him­self to dec­orate the place for Christ­mas. He could tell the elf had done it, be­cause no­body else would have strung a hun­dred gold­en baubles from the ceil­ing, each show­ing a pic­ture of Har­ry's face and bear­ing the leg­end: 'HAVE A VERY HAR­RY CHRIST­MAS!'

Har­ry had on­ly just man­aged to get the last of them down be­fore the door creaked open and Lu­na Love good en­tered, look­ing as dreamy as usu­al.

'Hel­lo,' she said vague­ly, look­ing around at what re­mained of the dec­ora­tions. These are nice, did you put them up?'

'No,' said Har­ry, 'it was Dob­by the house-​elf.'

'Mistle­toe,' said Lu­na dream­ily, point­ing at a large clump of white berries placed al­most over Har­ry's head. He jumped out from un­der it. 'Good think­ing,' said Lu­na very se­ri­ous­ly. 'It's of­ten in­fest­ed with Nar­gles.'

Har­ry was saved the ne­ces­si­ty of ask­ing what Nar­gles are by the ar­rival of An­geli­na, Katie and Ali­cia. All three of them were breath­less and looked very cold.

'Well,' said An­geli­na dul­ly, pulling off her cloak and throw­ing it in­to a cor­ner, 'we've fi­nal­ly re­placed you.'

'Re­placed me?' said Har­ry blankly.

'You and Fred and George,' she said im­pa­tient­ly. 'We've got an­oth­er Seek­er!'

'Who?' said Har­ry quick­ly.

'Gin­ny Weasley,' said Katie.

Har­ry gaped at her.

'Yeah, I know,' said An­geli­na, pulling out her wand and flex­ing her arm, 'but she's pret­ty good, ac­tu­al­ly. Noth­ing on you, of course,' she said, throw­ing him a very dirty look, 'but as we can't have you…'

Har­ry bit back the re­tort he was long­ing to ut­ter: did she imag­ine for a sec­ond that he did not re­gret his ex­pul­sion from the team a hun­dred times more than she did?

'And what about the Beat­ers?' he asked, try­ing to keep his voice even.

'An­drew Kirke,' said Ali­cia with­out en­thu­si­asm, 'and Jack Slop­er. Nei­ther of them are bril­liant, but com­pared to the rest of the id­iots who turned up…'

The ar­rival of Ron, Hermione and Neville brought this de­press­ing dis­cus­sion to an end, and with­in five min­utes the room was full enough to pre­vent Har­ry see­ing An­geli­na's burn­ing, re­proach­ful looks.

'OK,' he said, call­ing them all to or­der. 'I thought this evening we should just go over the things we've done so far, be­cause it's the last meet­ing be­fore the hol­idays and there's no point start­ing any­thing new right be­fore a three-​week break -'

'We're not do­ing any­thing new?' said Zacharias Smith, in a dis­grun­tled whis­per loud enough to car­ry through the room. 'If I'd known that, I wouldn't have come.'

'We're all re­al­ly sor­ry Har­ry didn't tell you, then,' said Fred loud­ly.

Sev­er­al peo­ple snig­gered. Har­ry saw Cho laugh­ing and felt the fa­mil­iar swoop­ing sen­sa­tion in his stom­ach, as though he had missed a step go­ing down­stairs.

'- we can prac­tise in pairs,' said Har­ry. We'll start with the Im­ped­iment Jinx, for ten min­utes, then we can get out the cush­ions and try Stun­ning again.'

They all di­vid­ed up obe­di­ent­ly; Har­ry part­nered Neville as usu­al. The room was soon full of in­ter­mit­tent cries of 'Im­ped­imen­ta! 'Peo­ple froze for a minute or so, dur­ing which their part­ner would stare aim­less­ly around the room watch­ing oth­er pairs at work, then would un­freeze and take their turn at the jinx.

Neville had im­proved be­yond all recog­ni­tion. Af­ter a while, when Har­ry had un­frozen three times in a row, he had Neville join Ron and Hermione again so that he could walk around the room and watch the oth­ers. When he passed Cho she beamed at him; he re­sist­ed the temp­ta­tion to walk past her sev­er­al more times.

Af­ter ten min­utes on the Im­ped­iment Jinx, they laid out cush­ions all over the floor and start­ed prac­tis­ing Stun­ning again. Space was re­al­ly too con­fined to al­low them all to work this spell at once; half the group ob­served the oth­ers for a while, then swapped over.

Har­ry felt him­self pos­itive­ly swelling with pride as he watched them all. True, Neville did Stun Pad­ma Patil rather than Dean, at whom he had been aim­ing, but it was a much clos­er miss than usu­al, and ev­ery­body else had made enor­mous progress.

At the end of an hour, Har­ry called a halt.

'You're get­ting re­al­ly good,' he said, beam­ing around at them. 'When we get back from the hol­idays we can start do­ing some of the big stuff - maybe even Pa­tronus­es.'

There was a mur­mur of ex­cite­ment. The room be­gan to clear in the usu­al twos and threes; most peo­ple wished Har­ry a 'Hap­py Christ­mas' as they went. Feel­ing cheer­ful, he col­lect­ed up the cush­ions with Ron and Hermione and stacked them neat­ly away. Ron and Hermione left be­fore he did; he hung back a lit­tle, be­cause Cho was still there and he was hop­ing to re­ceive a 'Mer­ry Christ­mas' from her.

'No, you go on,' he heard her say to her friend Ma­ri­et­ta and his heart gave a jolt that seemed to take it in­to the re­gion of his Adam's ap­ple.

He pre­tend­ed to be straight­en­ing the cush­ion pile. He was quite sure they were alone now and wait­ed tor her to speak. In­stead, he heard a hearty sniff.

He turned and saw Cho stand­ing in the mid­dle of the room, tears pour­ing down her face.

'Wha—?'

He didn't know what to do. She was sim­ply stand­ing there, cry­ing silent­ly.

'What's up?' he said, fee­bly.

She shook her head and wiped her eyes on her sleeve.

'I'm - sor­ry,' she said thick­ly. 'I sup­pose… it's just… learn­ing all this stuff… it just makes me… won­der whether… if he'd known it all… he'd still be alive.'

Har­ry's heart sank right back past its usu­al spot and set­tled some­where around his navel. He ought to have known. She want­ed to talk about Cedric.

'He did know this stuff,' Har­ry said heav­ily. 'He was re­al­ly good at it, or he could nev­er have got to the mid­dle of that maze. But if Volde­mort re­al­ly wants to kill you, you don't stand a chance.'

She hic­coughed at the sound of Volde­mort's name, but stared at Har­ry with­out flinch­ing.

'You sur­vived when you were just a ba­by,' she said qui­et­ly.

'Yeah, well,' said Har­ry weari­ly, mov­ing to­wards the door, 'I dun­no why nor does any­one else, so it's noth­ing to be proud of.'

'Oh, don't go!' said Cho, sound­ing tear­ful again. 'I'm re­al­ly sor­ry to get all up­set like this… I didn't mean to…'

She hic­coughed again. She was very pret­ty even when her eyes were red and puffy. Har­ry felt thor­ough­ly mis­er­able. He'd have been so pleased with just a 'Mer­ry Christ­mas'.

'I know it must be hor­ri­ble for you,' she said, mop­ping her eyes on her sleeve again. 'Me men­tion­ing Cedric, when you saw him die… I sup­pose you just want to for­get about it?'

Har­ry did not say any­thing to this; it was quite true, but he felt heart­less say­ing it.

'You're a r-​re­al­ly good teach­er, you know,' said Cho, with a wa­tery smile. 'I've nev­er been able to Stun any­thing be­fore.'

Thanks,' said Har­ry awk­ward­ly.

They looked at each oth­er for a long mo­ment. Har­ry felt a burn­ing de­sire to run from the room and, at the same time, a com­plete in­abil­ity to move his feet.

'Mistle­toe,' said Cho qui­et­ly, point­ing at the ceil­ing over his head.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. His mouth was very dry. 'It's prob­ably full of Nar­gles, though.'

'What are Nar­gles?'

'No idea,' said Har­ry. She had moved clos­er. His brain seemed to have been Stunned. 'You'd have to ask Loony. Lu­na, I mean.'

Cho made a fun­ny noise halfway be­tween a sob and a laugh. She was even near­er to him now. He could have count­ed the freck­les on her nose.

'I re­al­ly like you, Har­ry.'

He could not think. A tin­gling sen­sa­tion was spread­ing through him, paralysing his arms, legs and brain.

She was much too close. He could see ev­ery tear cling­ing to her eye­lash­es…

He re­turned to the com­mon room half an hour lat­er to find Hermione and Ron in the best seats by the fire; near­ly ev­ery­body else had gone to bed. Hermione was writ­ing a very long let­ter; she had al­ready filled half a roll of parch­ment, which was dan­gling from the edge of the ta­ble. Ron was ly­ing on the hearthrug, try­ing to fin­ish his Trans­fig­ura­tion home­work.

'What kept you?' he asked, as Har­ry sank in­to the arm­chair next to Hermione's.

Har­ry didn't an­swer. He was in a state of shock. Half of him want­ed to tell Ron and Hermione what had just hap­pened, but the oth­er half want­ed to take the se­cret with him to the grave.

'Are you all right, Har­ry?' Hermione asked, peer­ing at him over the tip of her quill.

Har­ry gave a half-​heart­ed shrug. In truth, he didn't know whether he was all right or not. 'What's up?' said Ron, hoist­ing him­self up on his el­bow to get a clear­er view of Har­ry. 'What's hap­pened?'

Har­ry didn't quite know how to set about telling them, and still wasn't sure whether he want­ed to. Just as he had de­cid­ed not to say any­thing, Hermione took mat­ters out of his hands.

'Is it Cho?' she asked in a busi­nesslike way. 'Did she cor­ner you af­ter the meet­ing?'

Numbly sur­prised, Har­ry nod­ded. Ron snig­gered, break­ing off when Hermione caught his eye.

'So - er - what did she want?' he asked in a mock ca­su­al voice.

'She -' Har­ry be­gan, rather hoarse­ly; he cleared his throat and tried again. 'She - er -'

'Did you kiss?' asked Hermione briskly.

Ron sat up so fast he sent his ink bot­tle fly­ing all over the rug. Dis­re­gard­ing this com­plete­ly, he stared avid­ly at Har­ry.

'Well?' he de­mand­ed.

Har­ry looked from Ron's ex­pres­sion of min­gled cu­rios­ity and hi­lar­ity to Hermione's slight frown, and nod­ded.

'HA!'

Ron made a tri­umphant ges­ture with his fist and went in­to a rau­cous peal of laugh­ter that made sev­er­al timid-​look­ing sec­ond-​years over be­side the win­dow jump. A re­luc­tant grin spread over Har­ry's face as he watched Ron rolling around on the hearthrug.

Hermione gave Ron a look of deep dis­gust and re­turned to her let­ter.

'Well?' Ron said fi­nal­ly, look­ing up at Har­ry. 'How was it?'

Har­ry con­sid­ered for a mo­ment.

'Wet,' he said truth­ful­ly.

Ron made a noise that might have in­di­cat­ed ju­bi­la­tion or dis­gust, it was hard to tell.

'Be­cause she was cry­ing,' Har­ry con­tin­ued heav­ily.

'Oh,' said Ron, his smile fad­ing slight­ly. 'Are you that bad at kiss­ing?'

'Dun­no,' said Har­ry, who hadn't con­sid­ered this, and im­me­di­ate­ly felt rather wor­ried. 'Maybe I am.'

'Of course you're not,' said Hermione ab­sent­ly, still scrib­bling away at her let­ter.

'How do you know?' said Ron very sharply.

'Be­cause Cho spends half her time cry­ing these days,' said Hermione vague­ly. 'She does it at meal­times, in the loos, all over the place.'

'You'd think a bit of kiss­ing would cheer her up,' said Ron, grin­ning.

'Ron,' said Hermione in a dig­ni­fied voice, dip­ping the point of her quill in­to her inkpot, 'you are the most in­sen­si­tive wart I have ev­er had the mis­for­tune to meet.'

'What's that sup­posed to mean?' said Ron in­dig­nant­ly. 'What sort of per­son cries while some­one's kiss­ing them?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, slight­ly des­per­ate­ly, 'who does?'

Hermione looked at the pair of them with an al­most pity­ing ex­pres­sion on her face.

'Don't you un­der­stand how Cho's feel­ing at the mo­ment?' she asked.

'No,' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

Hermione sighed and laid down her quill.

'Well, ob­vi­ous­ly, she's feel­ing very sad, be­cause of Cedric dy­ing. Then I ex­pect she's feel­ing con­fused be­cause she liked Cedric and now she likes Har­ry, and she can't work out who she likes best. Then she'll be feel­ing guilty, think­ing it's an in­sult to Cedric's mem­ory to be kiss­ing Har­ry at all, and she'll be wor­ry­ing about what ev­ery­one else might say about her if she starts go­ing out with Har­ry. And she prob­ably can't work out what her feel­ings to­wards Har­ry are, any­way, be­cause he was the one who was with Cedric when Cedric died, so that's all very mixed up and painful. Oh, and she's afraid she's go­ing to be thrown off the Raven­claw Quid­ditch team be­cause she's been fly­ing so bad­ly.'

A slight­ly stunned si­lence greet­ed the end of this speech, then Ron said, 'One per­son can't feel all that at once, they'd ex­plode.'

'Just be­cause you've got the emo­tion­al range of a tea­spoon doesn't mean we all have,' said Hermione nas­ti­ly pick­ing up her quill again.

'She was the one who start­ed it,' said Har­ry. 'I wouldn'tVe - she just sort of came at me - and next thing she's cry­ing all over me - I didn't know what to do —'

'Don't blame you, mate,' said Ron, look­ing alarmed at the very thought.

'You just had to be nice to her,' said Hermione, look­ing up anx­ious­ly. 'You were, weren't you?'

'Well,' said Har­ry, an un­pleas­ant heat creep­ing up his face, 'I sort of - pat­ted her on the back a bit.'

Hermione looked as though she was re­strain­ing her­self from rolling her eyes with ex­treme dif­fi­cul­ty.

'Well, I sup­pose it could have been worse,' she said. 'Are you go­ing to see her again?'

Til have to, won't I?' said Har­ry. 'We've got DA meet­ings, haven't we?'

'You know what I mean,' said Hermione im­pa­tient­ly.

Har­ry said noth­ing. Hermione's words opened up a whole new vista of fright­en­ing pos­si­bil­ities. He tried to imag­ine go­ing some­where with Cho — Hogsmeade, per­haps - and be­ing alone with her for hours at a time. Of course, she would have been ex­pect­ing him to ask her out af­ter what had just hap­pened… the thought made his stom­ach clench painful­ly.

'Oh well,' said Hermione dis­tant­ly, buried in her let­ter once more, 'you'll have plen­ty of op­por­tu­ni­ties to ask her.'

'What if he doesn't want to ask her?' said Ron, who had been watch­ing Har­ry with an un­usu­al­ly shrewd ex­pres­sion on his face.

'Don't be sil­ly,' said Hermione vague­ly, 'Har­ry's liked her for ages, haven't you, Har­ry?'

He did not an­swer. Yes, he had liked Cho for ages, but when­ev­er he had imag­ined a scene in­volv­ing the two of them it had al­ways fea­tured a Cho who was en­joy­ing her­self, as op­posed to a Cho who was sob­bing un­con­trol­lably in­to his shoul­der.

'Who're you writ­ing the nov­el to, any­way?' Ron asked Hermione, try­ing to read the bit of parch­ment now trail­ing on the floor. Hermione hitched it up out of sight.

'Vik­tor.'

'Krum?'

'How many oth­er Vik­tors do we know?'

Ron said noth­ing, but looked dis­grun­tled. They sat in si­lence for an­oth­er twen­ty min­utes, Ron fin­ish­ing his Trans­fig­ura­tion es­say with many snorts of im­pa­tience and cross­ings-​out, Hermione writ­ing steadi­ly to the very end of the parch­ment, rolling it up care­ful­ly and seal­ing it, and Har­ry star­ing in­to the fire, wish­ing more than any­thing that Sir­ius's head would ap­pear there and give him some ad­vice about girls. But the fire mere­ly crack­led low­er and low­er, un­til the red-​hot em­bers crum­bled in­to ash and, look­ing around, Har­ry saw that they were, yet again, the last ones in the com­mon room.

'Well, night,' said Hermione, yawn­ing wide­ly as she set olf up the girls' stair­case.

'What does she see in Krum?' Ron de­mand­ed, as he and Har­ry climbed the boys' stairs.

'Well,' said Har­ry, con­sid­er­ing the mat­ter, 'I's'pose he's old­er, isn't he… and he's an in­ter­na­tion­al Quid­ditch play­er…'

'Yeah, but apart from that,' said Ron, sound­ing ag­gra­vat­ed. 'I mean, he's a grouchy git, isn't he?'

'Bit grouchy, yeah,' said Har­ry, whose thoughts were still on Cho.

They pulled off their robes and put on py­ja­mas in si­lence; Dean, Sea­mus and Neville were al­ready asleep. Har­ry put his glass­es on his bed­side ta­ble and got in­to bed but did not pull the hang­ings closed around his four-​poster; in­stead, he stared at the patch of star­ry sky vis­ible through the win­dow next to Neville's bed. If he had known, this time last night, that in twen­ty-​four hours' time he would have kissed Cho Chang…

'Night,' grunt­ed Ron, from some­where to his right.

'Night,' said Har­ry.

Maybe next time… if there was a next time… she'd be a bit hap­pi­er. He ought to have asked her out; she had prob­ably been ex­pect­ing it and was now re­al­ly an­gry with him… or was she ly­ing in bed, still cry­ing about Cedric? He did not know what to think. Hermione's ex­pla­na­tion had made it all seem more com­pli­cat­ed rather than eas­ier to un­der­stand.

That's what they should teach us here, he thought, turn­ing over on to his side, how girls' brains work… it'd be more use­ful than Div­ina­tion, any­way…

Neville snuf­fled in his sleep. An owl hoot­ed some­where out in the night.

Har­ry dreamed he was back in the DA room. Cho was ac­cus­ing him of lur­ing her there un­der false pre­tences; she said he had promised her a hun­dred and fifty Choco­late Frog Cards if she showed up. Har­ry protest­ed… Cho shout­ed, 'Cedric­gave me loads of Choco­late Frog Cards, look!' And she pulled out fist­fuls of Cards from in­side her robes and threw them in­to the air. Then she turned in­to Hermione, who said, 'You did promise her, you know, Har­ry… I think you'd bet­ter give her some­thing else in­stead… how about your Fire­bolt?' And Har­ry was protest­ing that he could not give Cho his Fire­bolt, be­cause Um­bridge had it, and any­way the whole thing was ridicu­lous, he'd on­ly come to the DA room to put up some Christ­mas baubles shaped like Dob­by's head…

The dream changed…

His body felt smooth, pow­er­ful and flex­ible. He was glid­ing be­tween shin­ing met­al bars, across dark, cold stone… he was flat against the floor, slid­ing along on his bel­ly… it was dark, yet he could see ob­jects around him shim­mer­ing in strange, vi­brant colours… he was turn­ing his head… at first glance the cor­ri­dor was emp­ty… but no… a man was sit­ting on the floor ahead, his chin droop­ing on to his chest, his out­line gleam­ing in the dark…

Har­ry put out his tongue… he tast­ed the man's scent on the air… he was alive but drowsy… sit­ting in front of a door at the end of the cor­ri­dor…

Har­ry longed to bite the man… but he must mas­ter the im­pulse… he had more im­por­tant work to do…

But the man was stir­ring… a sil­ver Cloak fell from his legs as he jumped to his feet; and Har­ry saw his vi­brant, blurred out­line tow­er­ing above him, saw a wand with­drawn from a belt… he had no choice… he reared high from the floor and struck once, twice, three times, plung­ing his fangs deeply in­to the man's flesh, feel­ing his ribs splin­ter be­neath his jaws, feel­ing the warm gush of blood…

The man was yelling in pain… then he fell silent… he slumped back­wards against the wall… blood was splat­ter­ing on to the floor…

His fore­head hurt ter­ri­bly… it was aching fit to burst…

'Har­ry! HAR­RY!'

He opened his eyes. Ev­ery inch of his body was cov­ered in icy sweat; his bed cov­ers were twist­ed all around him like a strait-​jack­et; he felt as though a white-​hot pok­er were be­ing ap­plied to his fore­head.

'Har­ry!'

Ron was stand­ing over him look­ing ex­treme­ly fright­ened. There were more fig­ures at the foot of Har­ry's bed. He clutched his head in his hands; the pain was blind­ing him… he rolled right over and vom­it­ed over the edge of the mat­tress.

'He's re­al­ly ill,' said a scared voice. 'Should we call some­one?'

'Har­ry! Har­ry!'

He had to tell Ron, it was very im­por­tant that he tell him… tak­ing great gulps of air, Har­ry pushed him­self up in bed, will­ing him­self not to throw up again, the pain half-​blind­ing him.

'Your dad,' he pant­ed, his chest heav­ing. 'Your dad's… been at­tacked…'

'What?' said Ron un­com­pre­hend­ing­ly.

'Your dad! He's been bit­ten, it's se­ri­ous, there was blood ev­ery­where…"

'I'm go­ing for help,' said the same scared voice, and Har­ry heard foot­steps run­ning out of the dor­mi­to­ry.

'Har­ry, mate,' said Ron un­cer­tain­ly, 'you… you were just dream­ing…'

'No!' said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly; it was cru­cial that Ron un­der­stand.

'It wasn't a dream… not an or­di­nary dream… I was there, I saw it… I did it…'

He could hear Sea­mus and Dean mut­ter­ing but did not care. The pain in his fore­head was sub­sid­ing slight­ly, though he was still sweat­ing and shiv­er­ing fever­ish­ly. He retched again and Ron leapt back­wards out of the way.

'Har­ry, you're not well,' he said shak­ily. 'Neville's gone for help.'

'I'm fine!' Har­ry choked, wip­ing his mouth on his py­ja­mas and shak­ing un­con­trol­lably. There's noth­ing wrong with me, it's your dad you've got to wor­ry about - we need to find out where he is - he's bleed­ing like mad - I was - it was a huge snake.'

He tried to get out of bed but Ron pushed him back in­to it; Dean and Sea­mus were still whis­per­ing some­where near­by. Whether one minute passed or ten, Har­ry did not know; he sim­ply sat there shak­ing, feel­ing the pain re­cede very slow­ly from his scar… then there were hur­ried foot­steps com­ing up the stairs and he heard Neville's voice again.

'Over here, Pro­fes­sor.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall came hur­ry­ing in­to the dor­mi­to­ry in her tar­tan dress­ing gown, her glass­es perched lop­sid­ed­ly on the bridge of her bony nose.

'What is it, Pot­ter? Where does it hurt?'

He had nev­er been so pleased to see her; it was a mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix he need­ed now, not some­one fuss­ing over him and pre­scrib­ing use­less po­tions.

'It's Ron's dad,' he said, sit­ting up again. 'He's been at­tacked by a snake and it's se­ri­ous, I saw it hap­pen.'

'What do you mean, you saw it hap­pen?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, her dark eye­brows con­tract­ing.

'I don't know… I was asleep and then I was there…'

'You mean you dreamed this?'

'No!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly; would none of them un­der­stand? 'I was hav­ing a dream at first about some­thing com­plete­ly dif­fer­ent, some­thing stupid… and then this in­ter­rupt­ed it. It was re­al, I didn't imag­ine it. Mr Weasley was asleep on the floor and he was at­tacked by a gi­gan­tic snake, there was a load of blood, he col­lapsed, some­one's got to find out where he is…'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was gaz­ing at him through her lop­sid­ed spec­ta­cles as though hor­ri­fied at what she was see­ing.

'I'm not ly­ing and I'm not mad!' Har­ry told her, his voice ris­ing to a shout. 'I tell you, I saw it hap­pen!'

'I be­lieve you, Pot­ter,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall curt­ly. 'Put on your dress­ing gown - we're go­ing to see the Head­mas­ter.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 22 - St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and...


Har­ry was so re­lieved she was tak­ing him se­ri­ous­ly that he did not hes­itate, but jumped out of bed at once, pulled on his dress­ing gown and pushed his glass­es back on to his nose.

'Weasley, you ought to come too,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

They fol­lowed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall past the silent fig­ures of Neville, Dean and Sea­mus, out of the dor­mi­to­ry, down the spi­ral stairs in­to the com­mon room, through the por­trait hole and off along the Fat La­dy's moon­lit cor­ri­dor. Har­ry felt as though the pan­ic in­side him might spill over at any mo­ment; he want­ed to run, to yell for Dum­ble­dore; Mr Weasley was bleed­ing as they walked along so se­date­ly, and what if those fangs (Har­ry tried hard not to think 'my fangs') had been poi­sonous? They passed Mrs. Nor­ris, who turned her lam­plike eyes up­on them and hissed faint­ly, but Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said, 'Shoo!' Mrs. Nor­ris slunk away in­to the shad­ows, and in a few min­utes they had reached the stone gar­goyle guard­ing the en­trance to Dum­ble­dore's of­fice.

'Fizzing Whizzbee,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

The gar­goyle sprang to life and leapt aside; the wall be­hind it split in two to re­veal a stone stair­case that was mov­ing con­tin­ual­ly up­wards like a spi­ral es­ca­la­tor. The three of them stepped on to the mov­ing stairs; the wall closed be­hind them with a thud and they were mov­ing up­wards in tight cir­cles un­til they reached the high­ly pol­ished oak door with the brass knock­er shaped like a grif­fin.

Though it was now well past mid­night there were voic­es com­ing from in­side the room, a pos­itive bab­ble of them. It sound­ed as though Dum­ble­dore was en­ter­tain­ing at least a dozen peo­ple.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall rapped three times with the grif­fin knock­er and the voic­es ceased abrupt­ly as though some­one had switched them all off. The door opened of its own ac­cord and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall led Har­ry and Ron in­side.

The room was in half-​dark­ness; the strange sil­ver in­stru­ments stand­ing on ta­bles were silent and still rather than whirring and emit­ting puffs of smoke as they usu­al­ly did; the por­traits of old head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es cov­er­ing the walls were all snooz­ing in their frames. Be­hind the door, a mag­nif­icent red and gold bird the size of a swan dozed on its perch with its head un­der its wing.

'Oh, it's you, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall… and… ah.'

Dum­ble­dore was sit­ting in a high-​backed chair be­hind his desk; he leaned for­ward in­to the pool of can­dle­light il­lu­mi­nat­ing the pa­pers laid out be­fore him. He was wear­ing a mag­nif­icent­ly em­broi­dered pur­ple and gold dress­ing gown over a snowy white night­shirt, but seemed wide-​awake, his pen­etrat­ing light blue eyes fixed in­tent­ly up­on Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore, Pot­ter has had a… well, a night­mare,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. 'He says…'

'It wasn't a night­mare,' said Har­ry quick­ly.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall looked round at Har­ry, frown­ing slight­ly.

'Very well, then, Pot­ter, you tell the Head­mas­ter about it.'

'I… well, I was asleep…' said Har­ry and, even in his ter­ror and his des­per­ation to make Dum­ble­dore un­der­stand, he felt slight­ly ir­ri­tat­ed that the Head­mas­ter was not look­ing at him, but ex­am­in­ing his own in­ter­locked fin­gers. 'But it wasn't an or­di­nary dream… it was re­al… I saw it hap­pen…' He took a deep breath, 'Ron's dad - Mr Weasley - has been at­tacked by a gi­ant snake.'

The words seemed to re­ver­ber­ate in the air af­ter he had said them, sound­ing slight­ly ridicu­lous, even com­ic. There was a pause in which Dum­ble­dore leaned back and stared med­ita­tive­ly at the ceil­ing. Ron looked from Har­ry to Dum­ble­dore, white-​faced and shocked.

'How did you see this?' Dum­ble­dore asked qui­et­ly, still not look­ing at Har­ry.

'Well… I don't know,' said Har­ry, rather an­gri­ly - what did it mat­ter? 'In­side my head, I sup­pose -'

'You mis­un­der­stand me,' said Dum­ble­dore, still in the same calm tone. 'I mean… can you re­mem­ber — er - where you were po­si­tioned as you watched this at­tack hap­pen? Were you per­haps stand­ing be­side the vic­tim, or else look­ing down on the scene from above?'

This was such a cu­ri­ous ques­tion that Har­ry gaped at Dum­ble­dore; it was al­most as though he knew…

'I was the snake,' he said. 'I saw it all from the snake's point of view.'

No­body else spoke for a mo­ment, then Dum­ble­dore, now look­ing at Ron who was still whey-​faced, asked in a new and sharp­er voice, 'Is Arthur se­ri­ous­ly in­jured?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry em­phat­ical­ly - why were they all so slow on the up­take, did they not re­alise how much a per­son bled when fangs that long pierced their side? And why could Dum­ble­dore not do him the cour­tesy of look­ing at him?

But Dum­ble­dore stood up, so quick­ly it made Har­ry jump, and ad­dressed one of the old por­traits hang­ing very near the ceil­ing. 'Ev­er­ard?' he said sharply. 'And you too, Dilys!'

A sal­low-​faced wiz­ard with a short black fringe and an el­der­ly witch with long sil­ver ringlets in the frame be­side him, both of whom seemed to have been in the deep­est of sleeps, opened their eyes im­me­di­ate­ly.

'You were lis­ten­ing?' said Dum­ble­dore.

The wiz­ard nod­ded; the witch said, 'Nat­ural­ly.'

The man has red hair and glass­es,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'Ev­er­ard, you will need to raise the alarm, make sure he is found by the right peo­ple -'

Both nod­ded and moved side­ways out of their frames, but in­stead of emerg­ing in neigh­bour­ing pic­tures (as usu­al­ly hap­pened at Hog­warts) nei­ther reap­peared. One frame now con­tained noth­ing but a back­drop of dark cur­tain, the oth­er a hand­some leather arm­chair. Har­ry no­ticed that many of the oth­er head­mas­ters and mis­tress­es on the walls, though snor­ing and drool­ing most con­vinc­ing­ly, kept sneak­ing peeks at him from un­der their eye­lids, and he sud­den­ly un­der­stood who had been talk­ing when they had knocked.

'Ev­er­ard and Dilys were two of Hog­warts's most cel­ebrat­ed Heads,' Dum­ble­dore said, now sweep­ing around Har­ry, Ron and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall to ap­proach the mag­nif­icent sleep­ing bird on his perch be­side the door. Their renown is such that both have por­traits hang­ing in oth­er im­por­tant wiz­ard­ing in­sti­tu­tions. As they are free to move be­tween their own por­traits, they can tell us what may be hap­pen­ing else­where…"

'But Mr Weasley could be any­where!' said Har­ry.

'Please sit down, all three of you,' said Dum­ble­dore, as though Har­ry had not spo­ken, 'Ev­er­ard and Dilys may not be back for sev­er­al min­utes. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, if you could draw up ex­tra chairs.'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pulled her wand from the pock­et of her dress­ing gown and waved it; three chairs ap­peared out of thin air, straight-​backed and wood­en, quite un­like the com­fort­able chintz arm­chairs that Dum­ble­dore had con­jured up at Har­ry's hear­ing. Har­ry sat down, watch­ing Dum­ble­dore over his shoul­der. Dum­ble­dore was now stroking Fawkes's plumed gold­en head with one fin­ger. The phoenix awoke im­me­di­ate­ly. He stretched his beau­ti­ful head high and ob­served Dum­ble­dore through bright, dark eyes.

'We will need,' Dum­ble­dore said very qui­et­ly to the bird, 'a warn­ing.'

There was a flash of fire and the phoenix had gone.

Dum­ble­dore now swooped down up­on one of the frag­ile sil­ver in­stru­ments whose func­tion Har­ry had nev­er known, car­ried it over to his desk, sat down fac­ing them again and tapped it gen­tly with the tip of his wand.

The in­stru­ment tin­kled in­to life at once with rhyth­mic clink­ing nois­es. Tiny puffs of pale green smoke is­sued from the mi­nus­cule sil­ver tube at the top. Dum­ble­dore watched the smoke close­ly, his brow fur­rowed. Af­ter a few sec­onds, the tiny puffs be­came a steady stream of smoke that thick­ened and coiled in the air… a ser­pent's head grew out of the end of it, open­ing its mouth wide. Har­ry won­dered whether the in­stru­ment was con­firm­ing his sto­ry: he looked ea­ger­ly at Dum­ble­dore for a sign that he was right, but Dum­ble­dore did not look up.

'Nat­ural­ly, nat­ural­ly,' mur­mured Dum­ble­dore ap­par­ent­ly to him­self, still ob­serv­ing the stream of smoke with­out the slight­est sign of sur­prise. 'But in essence di­vid­ed?'

Har­ry could make nei­ther head nor tail of this ques­tion. The smoke ser­pent, how­ev­er, split it­self in­stant­ly in­to two snakes, both coil­ing and un­du­lat­ing in the dark air. With a look of grim sat­is­fac­tion, Dum­ble­dore gave the in­stru­ment an­oth­er gen­tle tap with his wand: the clink­ing noise slowed and died and the smoke ser­pents grew faint, be­came a form­less haze and van­ished.

Dum­ble­dore re­placed the in­stru­ment on its spindly lit­tle ta­ble. Har­ry saw many of the old head­mas­ters in the por­traits fol­low him with their eyes, then, re­al­is­ing that Har­ry was watch­ing them, hasti­ly pre­tend to be sleep­ing again. Har­ry want­ed to ask what the strange sil­ver in­stru­ment was for, but be­fore he could do so, there was a shout from the top of the wall to their right; the wiz­ard called Ev­er­ard had reap­peared in his por­trait, pant­ing slight­ly.

'Dum­ble­dore!'

'What news?' said Dum­ble­dore at once.

'I yelled un­til some­one came run­ning,' said the wiz­ard, who was mop­ping his brow on the cur­tain be­hind him, 'said I'd heard some­thing mov­ing down­stairs - they weren't sure whether to be­lieve me but went down to check - you know there are no por­traits down there to watch from. Any­way, they car­ried him up a few min­utes lat­er. He doesn't look good, he's cov­ered in blood, I ran along to El­fri­da Cragg's por­trait to get a good view as they left -'

'Good,' said Dum­ble­dore as Ron made a con­vul­sive move­ment. 'I take it Dilys will have seen him ar­rive, then -'

And mo­ments lat­er, the sil­ver-​ringlet­ed witch had reap­peared in her pic­ture, too; she sank, cough­ing, in­to her arm­chair and said, 'Yes, they've tak­en him to St Mun­go's, Dum­ble­dore… they car­ried him past my por­trait… he looks bad…'

Thank you,' said Dum­ble­dore. He looked round at Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Min­er­va, I need you to go and wake the oth­er Weasley chil­dren.'

'Of course…'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall got up and moved swift­ly to the door. Har­ry cast a side­ways glance at Ron, who was look­ing ter­ri­fied.

'And Dum­ble­dore - what about Mol­ly?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, paus­ing at the door.

That will be a job for Fawkes when he has fin­ished keep­ing a look­out for any­body ap­proach­ing,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'But she may al­ready know… that ex­cel­lent clock of hers…'

Har­ry knew Dum­ble­dore was re­fer­ring to the clock that told, not the time, but the where­abouts and con­di­tions of the var­ious Weasley fam­ily mem­bers, and with a pang he thought that Mr Weasley's hand must, even now, be point­ing at mor­tal per­il. But it was very late. Mrs. Weasley was prob­ably asleep, not watch­ing the clock. Har­ry felt cold as he re­mem­bered Mrs. Weasley's Bog­gart turn­ing in­to Mr Weasley's life­less body, his glass­es askew, blood run­ning down his face… but Mr Weasley wasn't go­ing to die… he couldn't…

Dum­ble­dore was now rum­mag­ing in a cup­board be­hind Har­ry and Ron. He emerged from it car­ry­ing a black­ened old ket­tle, which he placed care­ful­ly on his desk. He raised his wand and mur­mured, 'Por­tus!' For a mo­ment the ket­tle trem­bled, glow­ing with an odd blue light; then it quiv­ered to rest, as solid­ly black as ev­er.

Dum­ble­dore marched over to an­oth­er por­trait, this time of a clever-​look­ing wiz­ard with a point­ed beard, who had been paint­ed wear­ing the Slytherin colours of green and sil­ver and was ap­par­ent­ly sleep­ing so deeply that he could not hear Dum­ble­dore's voice when he at­tempt­ed to rouse him.

'Phineas. Phineas.'

The sub­jects of the por­traits lin­ing the room were no longer pre­tend­ing to be asleep; they were shift­ing around in their frames, the bet­ter to watch what was hap­pen­ing. When the clever-​look­ing wiz­ard con­tin­ued to feign sleep, some of them shout­ed his name, too.

'Phineas! Phineas! PHINEAS!'

He could not pre­tend any longer; he gave a the­atri­cal jerk and opened his eyes wide.

'Did some­one call?'

'I need you to vis­it your oth­er por­trait again, Phineas,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'I've got an­oth­er mes­sage.'

'Vis­it my oth­er por­trait?' said Phineas in a reedy voice, giv­ing a long, fake yawn (his eyes trav­el­ling around the room and fo­cus­ing on Har­ry). 'Oh, no, Dum­ble­dore, I am too tired tonight.'

Some­thing about Phineas's voice was fa­mil­iar to Har­ry, where had he heard it be­fore? But be­fore he could think, the por­traits on the sur­round­ing walls broke in­to a storm of protest.

'In­sub­or­di­na­tion, sir!' roared a cor­pu­lent, red-​nosed wiz­ard, bran­dish­ing his fists. 'Dere­lic­tion of du­ty!'

'We are hon­our-​bound to give ser­vice to the present Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts!' cried a frail-​look­ing old wiz­ard whom Har­ry recog­nised as Dum­ble­dore's pre­de­ces­sor, Ar­man­do Dip­pet. 'Shame on you, Phineas!'

'Shall I per­suade him, Dum­ble­dore?' called a gim­let-​eyed witch, rais­ing an un­usu­al­ly thick wand that looked not un­like a birch rod.

'Oh, very well,' said the wiz­ard called Phineas, eye­ing the wand with mild ap­pre­hen­sion, 'though he may well have de­stroyed my pic­ture by now, he's done away with most of the fam­ily -'

'Sir­ius knows not to de­stroy your por­trait,' said Dum­ble­dore, and Har­ry re­alised im­me­di­ate­ly where he had heard Phineas's voice be­fore: is­su­ing from the ap­par­ent­ly emp­ty frame in his bed­room in Grim­mauld Place. 'You are to give him the mes­sage that Arthur Weasley has been grave­ly in­jured and that his wife, chil­dren and Har­ry Pot­ter will be ar­riv­ing at his house short­ly. Do you un­der­stand?'

'Arthur Weasley, in­jured, wife and chil­dren and Har­ry Pot­ter com­ing to stay,' re­peat­ed Phineas in a bored voice. 'Yes, yes… very well

He sloped away in­to the frame of the por­trait and dis­ap­peared from view at the very mo­ment the study door opened again. Fred, George and Gin­ny were ush­ered in­side by Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, all three of them look­ing di­shev­elled and shocked, still in their night things.

'Har­ry - what's go­ing on?' asked Gin­ny, who looked fright­ened. 'Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall says you saw Dad get hurt -'

'Your fa­ther has been in­jured in the course of his work for the Or­der of the Phoenix,' said Dum­ble­dore, be­fore Har­ry could speak. 'He has been tak­en to St Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal for Mag­ical Mal­adies and In­juries. I am send­ing you back to Sir­ius's house, which is much more con­ve­nient for the hos­pi­tal than The Bur­row. You will meet your moth­er there.'

'How're we go­ing?' asked Fred, look­ing shak­en. Tloo pow­der?'

'No,' said Dum­ble­dore, Tloo pow­der is not safe at the mo­ment, the Net­work is be­ing watched. You will be tak­ing a Portkey.' He in­di­cat­ed the old ket­tle ly­ing in­no­cent­ly on his desk. 'We are just wait­ing for Phineas Nigel­lus to re­port back… I want to be sure that the coast is clear be­fore send­ing you -'

There was a flash of flame in the very mid­dle of the of­fice, leav­ing be­hind a sin­gle gold­en feath­er that float­ed gen­tly to the floor.

'It is Fawkes's warn­ing,' said Dum­ble­dore, catch­ing the feath­er as it fell. 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge must know you're out of your beds… Min­er­va, go and head her off - tell her any sto­ry -'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was gone in a swish of tar­tan.

'He says he'll be de­light­ed,' said a bored voice be­hind Dum­ble­dore; the wiz­ard called Phineas had reap­peared in front of his Slytherin ban­ner. 'My great-​great-​grand­son has al­ways had an odd taste in house-​guests.'

'Come here, then,' Dum­ble­dore said to Har­ry and the Weasleys. 'And quick­ly, be­fore any­one else joins us.'

Har­ry and the oth­ers gath­ered around Dum­ble­dore's desk.

'You have all used a Portkey be­fore?' asked Dum­ble­dore, and they nod­ded, each reach­ing out to touch some part of the black­ened ket­tle. 'Good. On the count of three, then… one… two…'

It hap­pened in a frac­tion of a sec­ond: in the in­finites­imal pause be­fore Dum­ble­dore said 'three', Har­ry looked up at him - they were very close to­geth­er - and Dum­ble­dore's clear blue gaze moved from the Portkey to Har­ry's face.

At once, Har­ry's scar burned white-​hot, as though the old wound had burst open again - and un­bid­den, un­want­ed, but ter­ri­fy­ing­ly strong, there rose with­in Har­ry a ha­tred so pow­er­ful he felt, for that in­stant, he would like noth­ing bet­ter than to strike - to bite - to sink his fangs in­to the man be­fore him —

'… three.'

Har­ry felt a pow­er­ful jerk be­hind his navel, the ground van­ished from be­neath his feet, his hand was glued to the ket­tle; he was bang­ing in­to the oth­ers as they all sped for­wards in a swirl of colours and a rush of wind, the ket­tle pulling them on­wards… un­til his feet hit the ground so hard his knees buck­led, the ket­tle clat­tered to the ground, and some­where close at hand a voice said:

'Back again, the blood-​traitor brats. Is it true their fa­ther's dy­ing?'

'OUT!' roared a sec­ond voice.

Har­ry scram­bled to his feet and looked around; they had ar­rived in the gloomy base­ment kitchen of num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place. The on­ly sources of light were the fire and one gut­ter­ing can­dle, which il­lu­mi­nat­ed the re­mains of a soli­tary sup­per. Kreach­er was dis­ap­pear­ing through the door to the hall, look­ing back at them malev­olent­ly as he hitched up his loin­cloth; Sir­ius was hur­ry­ing to­wards them all, look­ing anx­ious. He was un­shaven and still in his day clothes; there was al­so a slight­ly Mundun­gus-​like whiff of stale drink about him.

'What's go­ing on?' he said, stretch­ing out a hand to help Gin­ny up. Thineas Nigel­lus said Arthur's been bad­ly in­jured —'

'Ask Har­ry,' said Fred.

'Yeah, I want to hear this for my­self,' said George.

The twins and Gin­ny were star­ing at him. Kreach­er's foot­steps had stopped on the stairs out­side.

'It was -' Har­ry be­gan; this was even worse than telling McG­ona­gall and Dum­ble­dore. 'I had a - a kind of - vi­sion

And he told them all that he had seen, though he al­tered the sto­ry so that it sound­ed as though he had watched from the side­lines as the snake at­tacked, rather than from be­hind the snake's own eyes. Ron, who was still very white, gave him a fleet­ing look, but did not speak. When Har­ry had fin­ished, Fred, George and Gin­ny con­tin­ued to stare at him for a mo­ment. Har­ry did not know whether he was imag­in­ing it or not, but he fan­cied there was some­thing ac­cusato­ry in their looks. Well, if they were go­ing to blame him just for see­ing the at­tack, he was glad he had not told them that he had been in­side the snake at the time.

'Is Mum here?' said Fred, turn­ing to Sir­ius.

'She prob­ably doesn't even know what's hap­pened yet,' said Sir­ius. The im­por­tant thing was to get you away be­fore Um­bridge could in­ter­fere. I ex­pect Dum­ble­dores let­ting Mol­ly know now.'

'We've got to go to St Mun­go's,' said Gin­ny ur­gent­ly. She looked around at her broth­ers; they were of course still in their py­ja­mas. 'Sir­ius, can you lend us cloaks or any­thing?'

'Hang on, you can't go tear­ing off to St Mun­go's!' said Sir­ius.

'Course we can go to St Mun­go's if we want,' said Fred, with a mul­ish ex­pres­sion. 'He's our dad!'

'And how are you go­ing to ex­plain how you knew Arthur was at­tacked be­fore the hos­pi­tal even let his wife know?'

'What does that mat­ter?' said George hot­ly.

'It mat­ters be­cause we don't want to draw at­ten­tion to the fact that Har­ry is hav­ing vi­sions of things that are hap­pen­ing hun­dreds of miles away!' said Sir­ius an­gri­ly. 'Have you any idea what the Min­istry would make of that in­for­ma­tion?'

Fred and George looked as though they could not care less what the Min­istry made of any­thing. Ron was still ashen-​faced and silent.

Gin­ny said, 'Some­body else could have told us… we could have heard it some­where oth­er than Har­ry.'

'Like who?' said Sir­ius im­pa­tient­ly. 'Lis­ten, your dad's been hurt while on du­ty for the Or­der and the cir­cum­stances are fishy enough with­out his chil­dren know­ing about it sec­onds af­ter it hap­pened, you could se­ri­ous­ly dam­age the Or­der's -'

'We don't care about the dumb Or­der!' shout­ed Fred.

'It's our dad dy­ing we're talk­ing about!' yelled George.

'Your fa­ther knew what he was get­ting in­to and he won't thank you for mess­ing things up for the Or­der!' said Sir­ius, equal­ly an­gry. This is how it is - this is why you're not in the Or­der - you don't un­der­stand - there are things worth dy­ing for!'

'Easy for you to say, stuck here!' bel­lowed Fred. 'I don't see you risk­ing your neck!'

The lit­tle colour re­main­ing in Sir­ius's face drained from it. He looked for a mo­ment as though he would quite like to hit Fred, but when he spoke, it was in a voice of de­ter­mined calm.

'I know it's hard, but we've all got to act as though we don't know any­thing yet. We've got to stay put, at least un­til we hear from your moth­er, all right?'

Fred and George still looked muti­nous. Gin­ny, how­ev­er, took a few steps over to the near­est chair and sank in­to it. Har­ry looked at Ron, who made a fun­ny move­ment some­where be­tween a nod and a shrug, and they sat down too. The twins glared at Sir­ius for an­oth­er minute, then took seats ei­ther side of Gin­ny.

That's right,' said Sir­ius en­cour­ag­ing­ly, 'come on, let's all… let's all have a drink while we're wait­ing. Ac­cio But­ter­beer!'

He raised his wand as he spoke and half a dozen bot­tles came fly­ing to­wards them out of the pantry, skid­ded along the ta­ble, scat­ter­ing the de­bris of Si­nus's meal, and stopped neat­ly in front of the six of them. They all drank, and for a while the on­ly sounds were those of the crack­ling of the kitchen fire and the soft thud of their bot­tles on the ta­ble.

Har­ry was on­ly drink­ing to have some­thing to do with his hands. His stom­ach was full of hor­ri­ble hot, bub­bling guilt. They would not be here if it were not for him; they would all still be asleep in bed. And it was no good telling him­self that by rais­ing the alarm he had en­sured that Mr Weasley was found, be­cause there was al­so the in­escapable busi­ness of it be­ing he who had at­tacked Mr Weasley in the first place.

Don't be stupid, you haven't got fangs, he told him­self, try­ing to keep calm, though the hand on his But­ter­beer bot­tle was shak­ing, you were ly­ing in bed, you weren't at­tack­ing any­one…

But then, what just hap­pened in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice? he asked him­self. I felt like I want­ed to at­tack Dum­ble­dore, too…

He put the bot­tle down a lit­tle hard­er than he meant to, and it slopped over on to the ta­ble. No one took any no­tice. Then a burst of fire in midair il­lu­mi­nat­ed the dirty plates in front of them and, as they gave cries of shock, a scroll of parch­ment fell with a thud on to the ta­ble, ac­com­pa­nied by a sin­gle gold­en phoenix tail feath­er.

'Fawkes!' said Sir­ius at once, snatch­ing up the parch­ment. That's not Dum­ble­dore's writ­ing - it must be a mes­sage from your moth­er - here -'

He thrust the let­ter in­to George's hand, who ripped it open and read aloud: 'Dad is still alive. I am set­ting out for St Mun­go's now. Stay where you are. I will send news as soon as I can. Mum.'

George looked around the ta­ble.

'Still alive…' he said slow­ly. 'But that makes it sound…'

He did not need to fin­ish the sen­tence. It sound­ed to Har­ry, too, as though Mr Weasley was hov­er­ing some­where be­tween life and death. Still ex­cep­tion­al­ly pale, Ron stared at the back of his moth­ers let­ter as though it might speak words of com­fort to him. Fred pulled the parch­ment out of George's hands and read it for him­self, then looked up at Har­ry, who felt his hand shak­ing on his But­ter­beer bot­tle again and clenched it more tight­ly to stop the trem­bling.

If Har­ry had ev­er sat through a longer night than this one, he could not re­mem­ber it. Sir­ius sug­gest­ed once, with­out any re­al con­vic­tion, that they all go to bed, but the Weasleys' looks of dis­gust were an­swer enough. They most­ly sat in si­lence around the ta­ble, watch­ing the can­dle wick sink­ing low­er and low­er in­to liq­uid wax, oc­ca­sion­al­ly rais­ing a bot­tle to their lips, speak­ing on­ly to check the time, to won­der aloud what was hap­pen­ing, and to re­as­sure each oth­er that if there was bad news, they would know straight­away, for Mrs. Weasley must long since have ar­rived at St Mun­go's.

Fred fell in­to a doze, his head lolling side­ways on to his shoul­der. Gin­ny was curled like a cat on her chair, but her eyes were open; Har­ry could see them re­flect­ing the fire­light. Ron was sit­ting with his head in his hands, whether awake or asleep it was im­pos­si­ble to tell. Har­ry and Sir­ius looked at each oth­er ev­ery so of­ten, in­trud­ers up­on the fam­ily grief, wait­ing… wait­ing…

At ten past five in the morn­ing by Ron's watch, the kitchen door swung open and Mrs. Weasley en­tered the kitchen. She was ex­treme­ly pale, but when they all turned to look at her, Fred, Ron and Har­ry half ris­ing from their chairs, she gave a wan smile.

'He's go­ing to be all right,' she said, her voice weak with tired­ness. 'He's sleep­ing. We can all go and see him lat­er. Bill's sit­ting with him now; he's go­ing to take the morn­ing off work.'

Fred fell back in­to his chair with his hands over his face. George and Gin­ny got up, walked swift­ly over to their moth­er and hugged her. Ron gave a very shaky laugh and downed the rest of his But­ter­beer in one.

'Break­fast!' said Sir­ius loud­ly and joy­ful­ly, jump­ing to his feet. 'Where's that ac­cursed house-​elf? Kreach­er! KREACH­ER!'

But Kreach­er did not an­swer the sum­mons.

'Oh, for­get it, then,' mut­tered Sir­ius, count­ing the peo­ple in front of him. 'So, it's break­fast for - let's see - sev­en… ba­con and eggs, I think, and some tea, and toast -'

Har­ry hur­ried over to the stove to help. He did not want to in­trude on the Weasleys' hap­pi­ness and he dread­ed the mo­ment when Mrs. Weasley would ask him to re­count his vi­sion. How­ev­er, he had bare­ly tak­en plates from the dress­er when Mrs. Weasley lift­ed them out of his hands and pulled him in­to a hug.

'I don't know what would have hap­pened if it hadn't been for you, Har­ry,' she said in a muf­fled voice. They might not have found Arthur for hours, and then it would have been too late, but thanks to you he's alive and Dum­ble­dore's been able to think up a good cov­er sto­ry for Arthur be­ing where he was, you've no idea what trou­ble he would have been in oth­er­wise, look at poor Stur­gis…"

Har­ry could hard­ly bear her grat­itude, but for­tu­nate­ly she soon re­leased him to turn to Sir­ius and thank him for look­ing af­ter her chil­dren through the night. Sir­ius said he was very pleased to have been able to help, and hoped they would all stay with him as long as Mr Weasley was in hos­pi­tal.

'Oh, Sir­ius, I'm so grate­ful… they think he'll be there a lit­tle while and it would be won­der­ful to be near­er… of course, that might mean we're here for Christ­mas.'

The more the mer­ri­er!' said Sir­ius with such ob­vi­ous sin­cer­ity that Mrs. Weasley beamed at him, threw on an apron and be­gan to help with break­fast.

'Sir­ius,' Har­ry mut­tered, un­able to stand it a mo­ment longer. 'Can I have a quick word? Er - now?'

He walked in­to the dark pantry and Sir­ius fol­lowed. With­out pream­ble, Har­ry told his god­fa­ther ev­ery de­tail of the vi­sion he had had, in­clud­ing the fact that he him­self had been the snake who had at­tacked Mr Weasley.

When he paused for breath, Sir­ius said, 'Did you tell Dum­ble­dore this?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, 'but he didn't tell me what it meant. Well, he doesn't tell me any­thing any more.'

'I'm sure he would have told you if it was any­thing to wor­ry about,' said Sir­ius steadi­ly.

'But that's not all,' said Har­ry, in a voice on­ly a lit­tle above a whis­per. 'Sir­ius, I… I think I'm go­ing mad. Back in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice, just be­fore we took the Portkey… for a cou­ple of sec­onds there I thought I was a snake, I felt like one - my scar re­al­ly hurt when I was look­ing at Dum­ble­dore - Sir­ius, I want­ed to at­tack him!'

He could on­ly see a sliv­er of Sir­iuss face; the rest was in dark­ness.

'It must have been the af­ter­math of the vi­sion, that's all,' said Sir­ius. 'You were still think­ing of the dream or what­ev­er it was and -'

'It wasn't that,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head, 'it was like some­thing rose up in­side me, like there's a snake in­side me.'

'You need to sleep,' said Sir­ius firm­ly. 'You're go­ing to have break­fast, then go up­stairs to bed, and af­ter lunch you can go and see Arthur with the oth­ers. You're in shock, Har­ry; you're blam­ing your­self for some­thing you on­ly wit­nessed, and it's lucky you did wit­ness it or Arthur might have died. Just stop wor­ry­ing.'

He clapped Har­ry on the shoul­der and left the pantry, leav­ing Har­ry stand­ing alone in the dark.

*

Ev­ery­one but Har­ry spent the rest of the morn­ing sleep­ing. He went up to the bed­room he and Ron had shared over the last few weeks of sum­mer, but while Ron crawled in­to bed and was asleep with­in min­utes, Har­ry sat ful­ly clothed, hunched against the cold met­al bars of the bed­stead, keep­ing him­self de­lib­er­ate­ly un­com­fort­able, de­ter­mined not to fall in­to a doze, ter­ri­fied that he might be­come the ser­pent again in his sleep and wake to find that he had at­tacked Ron, or else slith­ered through the house af­ter one of the oth­ers…

When Ron woke up, Har­ry pre­tend­ed to have en­joyed a re­fresh­ing nap too. Their trunks ar­rived from Hog­warts while they were eat­ing lunch, so they could dress as Mug­gles for the trip to St Mun­go's. Ev­ery­body ex­cept Har­ry was ri­otous­ly hap­py and talkative as they changed out of their robes in­to jeans and sweat­shirts. When Tonks and Mad-​Eye turned up to es­cort them across Lon­don, they greet­ed them glee­ful­ly, laugh­ing at the bowler hat Mad-​Eye was wear­ing at an an­gle to con­ceal his mag­ical eye and as­sur­ing him, truth­ful­ly, that Tonks, whose hair was short and bright pink again, would at­tract far less at­ten­tion on the Un­der­ground.

Tonks was very in­ter­est­ed in Har­ry's vi­sion of the at­tack on Mr Weasley, some­thing Har­ry was not re­mote­ly in­ter­est­ed in dis­cussing.

There isn't any Seer blood in your fam­ily, is there?' she en­quired cu­ri­ous­ly, as they sat side by side on a train rat­tling to­wards the heart of the city.

'No,' said Har­ry, think­ing of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney and feel­ing in­sult­ed.

'No,' said Tonks mus­ing­ly, 'no, I sup­pose it's not re­al­ly prophe­cy you're do­ing, is it? I mean, you're not see­ing the fu­ture, you're see­ing the present… it's odd, isn't it? Use­ful, though…'

Har­ry didn't an­swer; for­tu­nate­ly, they got out at the next stop, a sta­tion in the very heart of Lon­don, and in the bus­tle of leav­ing the train he was able to al­low Fred and George to get be­tween him­self and Tonks, who was lead­ing the way. They all fol­lowed her up the es­ca­la­tor, Moody clunk­ing along at the back of the group, his bowler tilt­ed low and one gnarled hand stuck in be­tween the but­tons of his coat, clutch­ing his wand. Har­ry thought he sensed the con­cealed eye star­ing hard at him. Try­ing to avoid any more ques­tions about his dream, he asked Mad-​Eye where St Mun­go's was hid­den.

'Not far from here,' grunt­ed Moody as they stepped out in­to the win­try air on a broad store-​lined street packed with Christ­mas shop­pers. He pushed Har­ry a lit­tle ahead of him and stumped along just be­hind; Har­ry knew the eye was rolling in all di­rec­tions un­der the tilt­ed hat. 'Wasn't easy to find a good lo­ca­tion for a hos­pi­tal. Nowhere in Di­agon Al­ley was big enough and we couldn't have it un­der­ground like the Min­istry - wouldn't be healthy. In the end they man­aged to get hold of a build­ing up here. The­ory was, sick wiz­ards could come and go and just blend in with the crowd.'

He seized Har­ry's shoul­der to pre­vent them be­ing sep­arat­ed by a gag­gle of shop­pers plain­ly in­tent on noth­ing but mak­ing it in­to a near­by shop full of elec­tri­cal gad­gets.

'Here we go,' said Moody a mo­ment lat­er.

They had ar­rived out­side a large, old-​fash­ioned, red-​brick de­part­ment store called Purge 6z Dowse Ltd. The place had a shab­by, mis­er­able air; the win­dow dis­plays con­sist­ed of a few chipped dum­mies with their wigs askew, stand­ing at ran­dom and mod­elling fash­ions at least ten years out of date. Large signs on all the dusty doors read: 'Closed for Re­fur­bish­ment'. Har­ry dis­tinct­ly heard a large wom­an laden with plas­tic shop­ping bags say to her friend as they passed, 'It's nev­er open, that place…'

'Right,' said Tonks, beck­on­ing them to­wards a win­dow dis­play­ing noth­ing but a par­tic­ular­ly ug­ly fe­male dum­my. Its false eye­lash­es were hang­ing off and it was mod­elling a green ny­lon pinafore dress. 'Ev­ery­body ready?'

They nod­ded, clus­ter­ing around her. Moody gave Har­ry an­oth­er shove be­tween the shoul­der blades to urge him for­ward and Tonks leaned close to the glass, look­ing up at the very ug­ly dum­my, her breath steam­ing up the glass. 'Wotch­er,' she said, 'we're here to see Arthur Weasley.'

Har­ry thought how ab­surd it was for Tonks to ex­pect the dum­my to hear her talk­ing so qui­et­ly through a sheet of glass, with bus­es rum­bling along be­hind her and all the rack­et of a street full of shop­pers. Then he re­mind­ed him­self that dum­mies couldn't hear any­way. Next sec­ond, his mouth opened in shock as the dum­my gave a tiny nod and beck­oned with its joint­ed fin­ger, and Tonks had seized Gin­ny and Mrs. Weasley by. the el­bows, stepped right through the glass and van­ished.

Fred, George and Ron stepped af­ter them. Har­ry glanced around at the jostling crowd; not one of them seemed to have a glance to spare for win­dow dis­plays as ug­ly as those of Purge & Dowse Ltd; nor did any of them seem to have no­ticed that six peo­ple had just melt­ed in­to thin air in front of them.

'C'mon,' growled Moody, giv­ing Har­ry yet an­oth­er poke in the back, and to­geth­er they stepped for­ward through what felt like a sheet of cool wa­ter, emerg­ing quite warm and dry on the oth­er side.

There was no sign of the ug­ly dum­my or the space where she had stood. They were in what seemed to be a crowd­ed re­cep­tion area where rows of witch­es and wiz­ards sat up­on rick­ety wood­en chairs, some look­ing per­fect­ly nor­mal and pe­rus­ing out-​of-​date copies of Witch Week­ly, oth­ers sport­ing grue­some dis­fig­ure­ments such as ele­phant trunks or ex­tra hands stick­ing out of their chests. The room was scarce­ly less qui­et than the street out­side, for many of the pa­tients were mak­ing very pe­cu­liar nois­es: a sweaty-​faced witch in the cen­tre of the front row, who was fan­ning her­self vig­or­ous­ly with a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet, kept let­ting off a high-​pitched whis­tle as steam came pour­ing out of her mouth; a grub­by-​look­ing war­lock in the cor­ner clanged like a bell ev­ery time he moved and, with each clang, his head vi­brat­ed hor­ri­bly so that he had to seize him­self by the ears to hold it steady.

Witch­es and wiz­ards in lime-​green robes were walk­ing up and down the rows, ask­ing ques­tions and mak­ing notes on clip­boards like Um­bridge's. Har­ry no­ticed the em­blem em­broi­dered on their chests: a wand and bone, crossed.

'Are they doc­tors?' he asked Ron qui­et­ly.

'Doc­tors?' said Ron, look­ing star­tled. Those Mug­gle nut­ters that cut peo­ple up? Nah, they're Heal­ers.'

'Over here!' called Mrs. Weasley above the re­newed clang­ing of the war­lock in the cor­ner, and they fol­lowed her to the queue in front of a plump blonde witch seat­ed at a desk marked En­quiries. The wall be­hind her was cov­ered in no­tices and posters say­ing things like: A CLEAN CAUL­DRON KEEPS PO­TIONS FROM BE­COM­ING POI­SONS and AN­TI­DOTES ARE AN­TI-​DON'TS UN­LESS AP­PROVED BY A QUAL­IFIED HEAL­ER. There was al­so a large por­trait of a witch with long sil­ver ringlets which was la­belled:

Dilys Der­went

St Mun­go's Heal­er 1722-

Head­mistress of Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry 1741-

Dilys was eye­ing the Weasley par­ty close­ly as though count­ing them; when Har­ry caught her eye she gave a tiny wink, walked side­ways out of her por­trait and van­ished.

Mean­while, at the front of the queue, a young wiz­ard was per­form­ing an odd on-​the-​spot jig and try­ing, in be­tween yelps of pain, to ex­plain his predica­ment to the witch be­hind the desk.

'It's these - ouch - shoes my broth­er gave me - ow - they're eat­ing my - OUCH - feet - look at them, there must be some kind of - AARGH - jinx on them and I can't - AAAAARGH - get them off.' He hopped from one foot to the oth­er as though danc­ing on hot coals.

The shoes don't pre­vent you read­ing, do they?' said the blonde witch, ir­ri­ta­bly point­ing at a large sign to the left of her desk. 'You want Spell Dam­age, fourth floor. Just like it says on the floor guide. Next!'

As the wiz­ard hob­bled and pranced side­ways out of the way, the Weasley par­ty moved for­ward a few steps and Har­ry read the floor guide:

ARTE­FACT AC­CI­DENTS… Ground floor

Caul­dron ex­plo­sion, wand back­fir­ing, broom crash­es, etc.

CREA­TURE-​IN­DUCED IN­JURIES… First floor

Bites, stings, burns, em­bed­ded spines, etc.

MAG­ICAL BUGS… Sec­ond floor

Con­ta­gious mal­adies, e.g. drag­on pox, van­ish­ing sick­ness, scro­jun­gu­lus, etc.

PO­TION AND PLANT POI­SON­ING… Third floor

Rash­es, re­gur­gi­ta­tion, un­con­trol­lable 2, etc.

SPELL DAM­AGE… Fourth floor

Un­liftable jinx­es, hex­es, in­cor­rect­ly ap­plied charms, etc.

VIS­ITORS' TEA­ROOM / HOS­PI­TAL SHOP… Fifth floor

IF YOU ARE UN­SURE WHERE TO GO, IN­CA­PABLE OF NOR­MAL SPEECH OR UN­ABLE TO RE­MEM­BER WHY YOU ARE HERE, OUR WEL­COME­WITCH WILL BE PLEASED TO HELP.

A very old, stooped wiz­ard with a hear­ing trum­pet had shuf­fled to the front of the queue now. 'I'm here to see Brod­er­ick Bode!' he wheezed.

'Ward forty-​nine, but I'm afraid you're wast­ing your time,' said the witch dis­mis­sive­ly. 'He's com­plete­ly ad­dled, you know - still thinks he's a teapot. Next!'

A ha­rassed-​look­ing wiz­ard was hold­ing his small daugh­ter tight­ly by the an­kle while she flapped around his head us­ing the im­mense­ly large, feath­ery wings that had sprout­ed right out through the back of her romper suit.

'Fourth floor,' said the witch, in a bored voice, with­out ask­ing, and the man dis­ap­peared through the dou­ble doors be­side the desk, hold­ing his daugh­ter like an odd­ly shaped bal­loon. 'Next!'

Mrs. Weasley moved for­ward to the desk.

'Hel­lo,' she said, 'my hus­band, Arthur Weasley, was sup­posed to be moved to a dif­fer­ent ward this morn­ing, could you tell us -?'

'Arthur Weasley?' said the witch, run­ning her fin­ger down a long list in front of her. 'Yes, first floor, sec­ond door on the right, Dai Llewellyn Ward.'

Thank you,' said Mrs. Weasley. 'Come on, you lot.'

They fol­lowed her through the dou­ble doors and along the nar­row cor­ri­dor be­yond, which was lined with more por­traits of fa­mous Heal­ers and lit by crys­tal bub­bles full of can­dles that float­ed up on the ceil­ing, look­ing like gi­ant soap­suds. More witch­es and wiz­ards in lime-​green robes walked in and out of the doors they passed; a foul-​smelling yel­low gas waft­ed in­to the pas­sage­way as they passed one door, and ev­ery now and then they heard dis­tant wail­ing. They climbed a flight of stairs and en­tered the Crea­ture-​In­duced In­juries cor­ri­dor, where the sec­ond door on the right bore the words: 'Dan­ger­ous' Dai Llewellyn Ward: Se­ri­ous Bites. Un­der­neath this was a card in a brass hold­er on which had been hand­writ­ten: Heal­er-​in-​Charge: Hip­pocrates Smeth­wyck. Trainee Heal­er: Au­gus­tus Pye.

'We'll wait out­side, Mol­ly,' Tonks said. 'Arthur won't want too many vis­itors at once… it ought to be just the fam­ily first.'

Mad-​Eye growled his ap­proval of this idea and set him­self with his back against the cor­ri­dor wall, his mag­ical eye spin­ning in all di­rec­tions. Har­ry drew back, too, but Mrs. Weasley reached out a hand and pushed him through the door, say­ing, 'Don't be sil­ly, Har­ry, Arthur wants to thank you.'

The ward was small and rather dingy, as the on­ly win­dow was nar­row and set high in the wall fac­ing the door. Most of the light came from more shin­ing crys­tal bub­bles clus­tered in the mid­dle of the ceil­ing. The walls were of pan­elled oak and there was a por­trait of a rather vi­cious-​look­ing wiz­ard on the wall, cap­tioned: Urquhart Rack­har­row, 1612—1697, In­ven­tor of the En­trail-​ex­pelling Curse.

There were on­ly three pa­tients. Mr Weasley was oc­cu­py­ing the bed at the far end of the ward be­side the tiny win­dow. Har­ry was pleased and re­lieved to see that he was propped up on sev­er­al pil­lows and read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet by the soli­tary ray of sun­light falling on to his bed. He looked up as they walked to­wards him and, see­ing who it was, beamed.

'Hel­lo!' he called, throw­ing the Prophet aside. 'Bill just left, Mol­ly, had to get back to work, but he says he'll drop in on you lat­er.'

'How are you, Arthur?' asked Mrs. Weasley, bend­ing down to kiss his cheek and look­ing anx­ious­ly in­to his face. 'You're still look­ing a bit peaky.'

'I feel ab­so­lute­ly fine,' said Mr Weasley bright­ly, hold­ing out his good arm to give Gin­ny a hug. 'If they could on­ly take the ban­dages off, I'd be fit to go home.'

'Why can't they take them off, Dad?' asked Fred.

'Well, I start bleed­ing like mad ev­ery time they try,' said Mr Weasley cheer­ful­ly, reach­ing across for his wand, which lay on his bed­side cab­inet, and wav­ing it so that six ex­tra chairs ap­peared at his bed­side to seat them all. 'It seems there was some rather un­usu­al kind of poi­son in that snake's fangs that keeps wounds open. They're sure they'll find an an­ti­dote, though; they say they've had much worse cas­es than mine, and in the mean­time I just have to keep tak­ing a Blood-​Re­plen­ish­ing Po­tion ev­ery hour. But that fel­low over there,' he said, drop­ping his voice and nod­ding to­wards the bed op­po­site in which a man lay look­ing green and sick­ly and star­ing at the ceil­ing. 'Bit­ten by a were­wolf, poor chap. No cure at all.'

'A were­wolf?' whis­pered Mrs. Weasley, look­ing alarmed. 'Is he safe in a pub­lic ward? Shouldn't he be in a pri­vate room?'

'It's two weeks till full moon,' Mr Weasley re­mind­ed her qui­et­ly. They've been talk­ing to him this morn­ing, the Heal­ers, you know, try­ing to per­suade him he'll be able to lead an al­most nor­mal life. I said to him - didn't men­tion names, of course - but I said I knew a were­wolf per­son­al­ly, very nice man, who finds the con­di­tion quite easy to man­age.'

'What did he say?' asked George.

'Said he'd give me an­oth­er bite if I didn't shut up,' said Mr Weasley sad­ly. 'And that wom­an over there,' he in­di­cat­ed the on­ly oth­er oc­cu­pied bed, which was right be­side the door, 'won't tell the Heal­ers what bit her, which makes us all think it must have been some­thing she was han­dling il­le­gal­ly. What­ev­er it was took a re­al chunk out of her leg, very nasty smell when they take off the dress­ings.'

'So, you go­ing to tell us what hap­pened, Dad?' asked Fred, pulling his chair clos­er to the bed.

'Well, you al­ready know, don't you?' said Mr Weasley, with a sig­nif­icant smile at Har­ry. 'It's very sim­ple - I'd had a very long day, dozed off, got sneaked up on and bit­ten.'

'Is it in the Prophet, you be­ing at­tacked?' asked Fred, in­di­cat­ing the news­pa­per Mr Weasley had cast aside.

'No, of course not,' said Mr Weasley, with a slight­ly bit­ter smile, 'the Min­istry wouldn't want ev­ery­one to know a dirty great ser­pent got —'

'Arthur!' Mrs. Weasley warned him.

'- got - er - me,' Mr Weasley said hasti­ly, though Har­ry was quite sure that was not what he had meant to say.

'So where were you when it hap­pened, Dad?' asked George.

That's my busi­ness,' said Mr Weasley, though with a small smile. He snatched up the Dai­ly Prophet, shook it open again and said, 'I was just read­ing about Willy Wid­der­shins's ar­rest when you ar­rived. You know Willy turned out to be be­hind those re­gur­gi­tat­ing toi­lets back in the sum­mer? One of his jinx­es back­fired, the toi­let ex­plod­ed and they found him ly­ing un­con­scious in the wreck­age cov­ered from head to foot in -'

'When you say you were “on du­ty”,' Fred in­ter­rupt­ed in a low voice, 'what were you do­ing?'

'You heard your fa­ther,' whis­pered Mrs. Weasley, 'we are not dis­cussing this here! Go on about Willy Wid­der­shins, Arthur.'

'Well, don't ask me how, but he ac­tu­al­ly got off the toi­let charge,' said Mr Weasley grim­ly. 'I can on­ly sup­pose gold changed hands -'

'You were guard­ing it, weren't you?' said George qui­et­ly. The weapon? The thing You-​Know-​Who's af­ter?'

'George, be qui­et!' snapped Mrs. Weasley.

'Any­way,' said Mr Weasley, in a raised voice, 'this time Willy's been caught sell­ing bit­ing door­knobs to Mug­gles and I don't think he'll be able to worm his way out of it be­cause, ac­cord­ing to this ar­ti­cle, two Mug­gles have lost fin­gers and are now in St Mun­go's for emer­gen­cy bone re-​growth and mem­ory mod­ifi­ca­tion. Just think of it, Mug­gles in St Mun­go's! I won­der which ward they're in?'

And he looked ea­ger­ly around as though hop­ing to see a sign­post.

'Didn't you say You-​Know-​Who's got a snake, Har­ry?' asked Fred, look­ing at his fa­ther for a re­ac­tion. 'A mas­sive one? You saw it the night he re­turned, didn't you?'

That's enough,' said Mrs. Weasley cross­ly. 'Mad-​Eye and Tonks are out­side, Arthur, they want to come and see you. And you lot can wait out­side,' she added to her chil­dren and Har­ry. 'You can come and say good­bye af­ter­wards. Go on.'

They trooped back in­to the cor­ri­dor. Mad-​Eye and Tonks went in and closed the door of the ward be­hind them. Fred raised his eye­brows.

'Fine,' he said cool­ly, rum­mag­ing in his pock­ets, 'be like that. Don't tell us any­thing.'

'Look­ing for these?' said George, hold­ing out what looked like a tan­gle of flesh-​coloured string.

'You read my mind,' said Fred, grin­ning. 'Let's see if St Mun­go's puts Im­per­turbable Charms on its ward doors, shall we?'

He and George dis­en­tan­gled the string and sep­arat­ed five Ex­tend­able Ears from each oth­er. Fred and George hand­ed them around. Har­ry hes­itat­ed to take one.

'Go on, Har­ry, take it! You saved Dad's life. If any­one's got the right to eaves­drop on him, it's you.'

Grin­ning in spite of him­self, Har­ry took the end of the string and in­sert­ed it in­to his ear as the twins had done.

'OK, go!' Fred whis­pered.

The flesh-​coloured strings wrig­gled like long skin­ny worms and snaked un­der the door. At first, Har­ry could hear noth­ing, then he jumped as he heard Tonks whis­per­ing as clear­ly as though she were stand­ing right be­side him.

'… they searched the whole area but couldn't find the snake any­where. It just seems to have van­ished af­ter it at­tacked you, Arthur… but You-​Know-​Who can't have ex­pect­ed a snake to get in, can he?'

'I reck­on he sent it as a look­out,' growled Moody, "cause he's not had any luck so far, has he? No, I reck­on he's try­ing to get a clear­er pic­ture of what he's fac­ing and if Arthur hadn't been there the beast would've had a lot more time to look around. So, Pot­ter says he saw it all hap­pen?'

'Yes,' said Mrs. Weasley. She sound­ed rather un­easy. 'You know, Dum­ble­dore seems al­most to have been wait­ing for Har­ry to see some­thing like this.'

'Yeah, well,' said Moody, 'there's some­thing fun­ny about the Pot­ter kid, we all know that.'

'Dum­ble­dore seemed wor­ried about Har­ry when I spoke to him this morn­ing,' whis­pered Mrs. Weasley.

'Course he's wor­ried,' growled Moody. 'The boy's see­ing things from in­side You-​Know-​Who's snake. Ob­vi­ous­ly, Pot­ter doesn't re­alise what that means, but if You-​Know-​Who's pos­sess­ing him —'

Har­ry pulled the Ex­tend­able Ear out of his own, his heart ham­mer­ing very fast and heat rush­ing up his face. He looked around at the oth­ers. They were all star­ing at him, the strings still trail­ing from their ears, look­ing sud­den­ly fear­ful.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 23 - Christmas on the Closed Ward


Was this why Dum­ble­dore would no longer meet Har­ry's eyes? Did he ex­pect to see Volde­mort star­ing out of them, afraid, per­haps, that their vivid green might turn sud­den­ly to scar­let, with cat­like slits for pupils? Har­ry re­mem­bered how the snake­like face of Volde­mort had once forced it­self out of the back of Pro­fes­sor Quir­rell's head and ran his hand over the back of his own, won­der­ing what it would feel like if Volde­mort burst out of his skull.

He felt dirty, con­tam­inat­ed, as though he were car­ry­ing some dead­ly germ, un­wor­thy to sit on the Un­der­ground train back from the hos­pi­tal with in­no­cent, clean peo­ple whose minds and bod­ies were free of the taint of Volde­mort… he had not mere­ly seen the snake, he had been the snake, he knew it now…

A tru­ly ter­ri­ble thought then oc­curred to him, a mem­ory bob­bing to the sur­face of his mind, one that made his in­sides writhe and squirm like ser­pents.

What's he af­ter, apart from fol­low­ers?

Stuff he can on­ly get by stealth… like a weapon. Some­thing he didn't have last time.

I'm the weapon, Har­ry thought, and it was as though poi­son were pump­ing through his veins, chill­ing him, bring­ing him out in a sweat as he swayed with the train through the dark tun­nel. I'm the one Volde­mor­ts try­ing to use, that's why they've got guards around me ev­ery­where I go, it's not for my pro­tec­tion, it's for oth­er peo­ple's, on­ly it's not work­ing, they can't have some­one on me all the time at Hog­warts… I did at­tack Mr Weasley last night, it was me. Volde­mort made me do it and he could be in­side me, lis­ten­ing to my thoughts right now -

'Are you all right, Har­ry, dear?' whis­pered Mrs. Weasley lean­ing across Gin­ny to speak to him as the train rat­tled along through its dark tun­nel. 'You don't look very well. Are you feel­ing sick?'

They were all watch­ing him. He shook his head vi­olent­ly and stared up at an ad­ver­tise­ment for home in­sur­ance.

'Har­ry, dear, are you sure you're all right?' said Mrs. Weasley in a wor­ried voice, as they walked around the un­kempt patch of grass in the mid­dle of Grim­mauld Place. 'You look ev­er so pale… are you sure you slept this morn­ing? You go up­stairs to bed right now and you can have a cou­ple of hours of sleep be­fore din­ner, all right?'

He nod­ded; here was a ready-​made ex­cuse not to talk to any of the oth­ers, which was pre­cise­ly what he want­ed, so when she opened the front door he hur­ried straight past the troll's-​leg um­brel­la stand, up the stairs and in­to his and Ron's bed­room.

Here, he be­gan to pace up and down, past the two beds and Phineas Nigel­lus's emp­ty pic­ture frame, his brain teem­ing and seething with ques­tions and ev­er more dread­ful ideas.

How had he be­come a snake? Per­haps he was an An­ima­gus… no, he couldn't be, he would know… per­haps Volde­mort was an An­ima­gus… yes, thought Har­ry, that would fit, he would turn in­to a snake of course… and when he's pos­sess­ing me, then we both trans­form… that still doesn't ex­plain how I got to Lon­don and back to my bed in the space of about five min­utes… but then Volde­mort's about the most pow­er­ful wiz­ard in the world, apart from Dum­ble­dore, it's prob­ably no prob­lem at all to him to trans­port peo­ple like that.

And then, with a ter­ri­ble stab of pan­ic, he thought, but this is in­sane - if Volde­mort's pos­sess­ing me, I'm giv­ing him a dear view in­to the Head­quar­ters of the Or­der of the Phoenix right now! He'll know who's in the Or­der and where Sir­ius is… and I've heard loads of stuff I shouldn't have, ev­ery­thing Sir­ius told me the first night I was here…

There was on­ly one thing for it: he would have to leave Grim­mauld Place straight­away. He would spend Christ­mas at

Hog­warts with­out the oth­ers, which would keep them safe over the hol­idays at least… but no, that wouldn't do, there were still plen­ty of peo­ple at Hog­warts to maim and in­jure. What if it was Sea­mus, Dean or Neville next time? He stopped his pac­ing and stood star­ing at Phineas Nigel­lus's emp­ty frame. A lead­en sen­sa­tion was set­tling in the pit of his stom­ach. He had no al­ter­na­tive: he was go­ing to have to re­turn to Priv­et Drive, cut him­self off from oth­er wiz­ards en­tire­ly.

Well, if he had to do it, he thought, there was no point hang­ing around. Try­ing with all his might not to think how the Durs­leys were go­ing to re­act when they found him on their doorstep six months ear­li­er than they had ex­pect­ed, he strode over to his trunk, slammed the lid shut and locked it, then glanced around au­to­mat­ical­ly for Hed­wig be­fore re­mem­ber­ing that she was still at Hog­warts - well, her cage would be one less thing to car­ry - he seized one end of his trunk and had dragged it halfway to­wards the door when a snide voice said, 'Run­ning away, are we?'

He looked around. Phineas Nigel­lus had ap­peared on the can­vas of his por­trait and was lean­ing against the frame, watch­ing Har­ry with an amused ex­pres­sion on his face.

'Not run­ning away, no,' said Har­ry short­ly, drag­ging his trunk a few more feet across the room.

'I thought,' said Phineas Nigel­lus, stroking his point­ed beard, 'that to be­long in Gryffind­or house you were sup­posed to be brave! It looks to me as though you would have been bet­ter off in my own house. We Slytherins are brave, yes, but not stupid. For in­stance, giv­en the choice, we will al­ways choose to save our own necks.'

'It's not my own neck I'm sav­ing,' said Har­ry terse­ly, tug­ging the trunk over a patch of par­tic­ular­ly un­even, moth-​eat­en car­pet right in front of the door.

'Oh, I see,' said Phineas Nigel­lus, still stroking his beard, 'this is no cow­ard­ly flight - you are be­ing no­ble.'

Har­ry ig­nored him. His hand was on the door­knob when Phineas Nigel­lus said lazi­ly, 'I have a mes­sage for you from Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.'

Har­ry span round.

'What is it?'

'“Stay where you are.”'

'I haven't moved!' said Har­ry, his hand still up­on the door­knob. 'So what's the mes­sage?'

'I have just giv­en it to you, dolt,' said Phineas Nigel­lus smooth­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore says, “Stay where you are.'”

'Why?' said Har­ry ea­ger­ly, drop­ping the end of his trunk. 'Why does he want me to stay? What else did he say?'

'Noth­ing what­so­ev­er,' said Phineas Nigel­lus, rais­ing a thin black eye­brow as though he found Har­ry im­per­ti­nent.

Har­ry's tem­per rose to the sur­face like a snake rear­ing from long grass. He was ex­haust­ed, he was con­fused be­yond mea­sure, he had ex­pe­ri­enced ter­ror, re­lief, then ter­ror again in the last twelve hours, and still Dum­ble­dore did not want to talk to him!

'So that's it, is it?' he said loud­ly. '“Stay where you are”! That's all any­one could tell me af­ter I got at­tacked by those De­men­tors, too! Just stay put while the grown-​ups sort it out, Har­ry! We won't both­er telling you any­thing, though, be­cause your tiny lit­tle brain might not be able to cope with it!'

'You know,' said Phineas Nigel­lus, even more loud­ly than Har­ry 'this is pre­cise­ly why I loathed be­ing a teach­er! Young peo­ple are so in­fer­nal­ly con­vinced that they are ab­so­lute­ly right about ev­ery­thing. Has it not oc­curred to you, my poor puffed-​up popin­jay, that there might be an ex­cel­lent rea­son why the Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts is not con­fid­ing ev­ery tiny de­tail of his plans to you? Have you nev­er paused, while feel­ing hard-​done-​by, to note that fol­low­ing Dum­ble­dores or­ders has nev­er yet led you in­to harm? No. No, like all young peo­ple, you are quite sure that you alone feel and think, you alone recog­nise dan­ger, you alone are the on­ly one clever enough to re­alise what the Dark Lord may be plan­ning -'

'He is plan­ning some­thing to do with me, then?' said Har­ry swift­ly.

'Did I say that?' said Phineas Nigel­lus, idly ex­am­in­ing his silk gloves. 'Now, if you will ex­cuse me, I have bet­ter things to do than lis­ten to ado­les­cent ag­onis­ing… good-​day to you.'

And he strolled to the edge of his frame and out of sight.

'Fine, go then!' Har­ry bel­lowed at the emp­ty frame. 'And tell Dum­ble­dore thanks for noth­ing!'

The emp­ty can­vas re­mained silent. Fum­ing, Har­ry dragged his trunk back to the foot of his bed, then threw him­self face down on the moth-​eat­en cov­ers, his eyes shut, his body heavy and aching.

He felt as though he had jour­neyed for miles and miles… it seemed im­pos­si­ble that less than twen­ty-​four hours ago Cho Chang had been ap­proach­ing him un­der the mistle­toe… he was so tired… he was scared to sleep… yet he did not know how long he could fight it… Dum­ble­dore had told him to stay… that must mean he was al­lowed to sleep… but he was scared… what if it hap­pened again?

He was sink­ing in­to shad­ows…

It was as though a film in his head had been wait­ing to start. He was walk­ing down a de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor to­wards a plain black door, past rough stone walls, torch­es, and an open door­way on to a flight of stone steps lead­ing down­stairs on the left…

He reached the black door but could not open it… he stood gaz­ing at it, des­per­ate for en­try… some­thing he want­ed with all his heart lay be­yond… a prize be­yond his dreams… if on­ly his scar would stop prick­ling… then he would be able to think more clear­ly…

'Har­ry,' said Ron's voice, from far, far away, 'Mum says din­ner's ready, but she'll save you some­thing if you want to stay in bed.'

Har­ry opened his eyes, but Ron had al­ready left the room.

He doesn't want to be on his own with me, Har­ry thought. Not af­ter what he heard Moody say.

He sup­posed none of them would want him there any more, now that they knew what was in­side him.

He would not go down to din­ner; he would not in­flict his com­pa­ny on them. He turned over on to his oth­er side and, af­ter a while, dropped back off to sleep. He woke much lat­er, in the ear­ly hours of the morn­ing, his in­sides aching with hunger and Ron snor­ing in the next bed. Squint­ing around the room, he saw the dark out­line of Phineas Nigel­lus stand­ing again in his por­trait and it oc­curred to Har­ry that Dum­ble­dore had prob­ably sent Phineas Nigel­lus to watch over him, in case he at­tacked some­body else.

The feel­ing of be­ing un­clean in­ten­si­fied. He half-​wished he had not obeyed Dum­ble­dore… if this was how life was go­ing to be for him in Grim­mauld Place from now on, maybe he would be bet­ter off in Priv­et Drive af­ter all.

*

Ev­ery­body else spent the fol­low­ing morn­ing putting up Christ­mas dec­ora­tions. Har­ry could not re­mem­ber Sir­ius ev­er be­ing in such a good mood; he was ac­tu­al­ly singing car­ols, ap­par­ent­ly de­light­ed that he was to have com­pa­ny over Christ­mas. Har­ry could hear his voice echo­ing up through the floor in the cold draw­ing room where he was sit­ting alone, watch­ing the sky grow­ing whiter out­side the win­dows, threat­en­ing snow, all the time feel­ing a sav­age plea­sure that he was giv­ing the oth­ers the op­por­tu­ni­ty to keep talk­ing about him, as they were bound to be do­ing. When he heard Mrs. Weasley call­ing his name soft­ly up the stairs around lunchtime, he re­treat­ed fur­ther up­stairs and ig­nored her.

Around six o'clock in the evening the door­bell rang and Mrs. Black start­ed scream­ing again. As­sum­ing that Mundun­gus or some oth­er Or­der mem­ber had come to call, Har­ry mere­ly set­tled him­self more com­fort­ably against the wall of Buck­beak's room where he was hid­ing, try­ing to ig­nore how hun­gry he felt as he fed dead rats to the Hip­pogriff. It came as a slight shock when some­body ham­mered hard on the door a few min­utes lat­er.

'I know you're in there,' said Hermione's voice. 'Will you please come out? I want to talk to you.'

'What are you do­ing here?' Har­ry asked her, pulling open the door as Buck­beak re­sumed his scratch­ing at the straw-​strewn floor for any frag­ments of rat he may have dropped. 'I thought you were ski­ing with your mum and dad?'

'Well, to tell the truth, ski­ing's not re­al­ly my thing,' said Hermione. 'So, I've come here for Christ­mas.' There was snow in her hair and her face was pink with cold. 'But don't tell Ron. I told him ski­ing's re­al­ly good be­cause he kept laugh­ing so much. Mum and Dad are a bit dis­ap­point­ed, but I've told them that ev­ery­one who is se­ri­ous about the ex­ams is stay­ing at Hog­warts to study. They want me to do well, they'll un­der­stand. Any­way,' she said briskly, 'let's go to your bed­room, Ron's mum has lit a fire in there and she's sent up sand­wich­es.'

Har­ry fol­lowed her back to the sec­ond floor. When he en­tered the bed­room, he was rather sur­prised to see both Ron and Gin­ny wait­ing for them, sit­ting on Ron's bed.

'I came on the Knight Bus,' said Hermione air­ily, pulling off her jack­et be­fore Har­ry had time to speak. 'Dum­ble­dore told me what had hap­pened first thing this morn­ing, but I had to wait for term to end of­fi­cial­ly be­fore set­ting off. Um­bridge is al­ready livid that you lot dis­ap­peared right un­der her nose, even though Dum­ble­dore told her Mr Weasley was in St Mun­go's and he'd giv­en you all per­mis­sion to vis­it. So…"

She sat down next to Gin­ny, and the two girls and Ron all looked up at Har­ry.

'How're you feel­ing?' asked Hermione.

Tine,' said Har­ry stiffly.

'Oh, don't lie, Har­ry,' she said im­pa­tient­ly. 'Ron and Gin­ny say you've been hid­ing from ev­ery­one since you got back from St Mun­go's.'

They do, do they?' said Har­ry, glar­ing at Ron and Gin­ny. Ron looked down at his feet but Gin­ny seemed quite un­abashed.

'Well, you have!' she said. 'And you won't look at any of us!'

'It's you lot who won't look at me!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

'Maybe you're tak­ing it in turns to look, and keep miss­ing each oth­er,' sug­gest­ed Hermione, the cor­ners of her mouth twitch­ing.

'Very fun­ny,' snapped Har­ry, turn­ing away.

'Oh, stop feel­ing all mis­un­der­stood,' said Hermione sharply. 'Look, the oth­ers have told me what you over­heard last night on the Ex­tend­able Ears -'

'Yeah?' growled Har­ry, his hands deep in his pock­ets as he watched the snow now falling thick­ly out­side. 'All been talk­ing about me, have you? Well, I'm get­ting used to it.'

'We want­ed to talk to you, Har­ry,' said Gin­ny, 'but as you've been hid­ing ev­er since we got back -'

'I didn't want any­one to talk to me,' said Har­ry, who was feel­ing more and more net­tled.

'Well, that was a bit stupid of you,' said Gin­ny an­gri­ly, 'see­ing as you don't know any­one but me who's been pos­sessed by You-​Know-​Who, and I can tell you how it feels.'

Har­ry re­mained quite still as the im­pact of these words hit him. Then he wheeled round.

'I for­got,' he said.

'Lucky you,' said Gin­ny cool­ly.

'I'm sor­ry' Har­ry said, and he meant it. 'So… so, do you think I'm be­ing pos­sessed, then?'

'Well, can you re­mem­ber ev­ery­thing you've been do­ing?' Gin­ny asked. 'Are there big blank pe­ri­ods where you don't know what you've been up to?'

Har­ry racked his brains.

'No,' he said.

Then You-​Know-​Who hasn't ev­er pos­sessed you,' said Gin­ny sim­ply. 'When he did it to me, I couldn't re­mem­ber what I'd been do­ing for hours at a time. I'd find my­self some­where and not know how I got there.'

Har­ry hard­ly dared be­lieve her, yet his heart was light­en­ing al­most in spite of him­self.

'That dream I had about your dad and the snake, though —'

'Har­ry you've had these dreams be­fore,' Hermione said. 'You had flash­es of what Volde­mort was up to last year.'

This was dif­fer­ent,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head. 'I was in­side that snake. It was like I was the snake… what if Volde­mort some­how trans­port­ed me to Lon­don —?'

'One day,' said Hermione, sound­ing thor­ough­ly ex­as­per­at­ed, 'you'll read Hog­warts: A His­to­ry, and per­haps it will re­mind you that you can't Ap­pa­rate or Dis­ap­pa­rate in­side Hog­warts. Even Volde­mort couldn't just make you fly out of your dor­mi­to­ry, Har­ry.'

'You didn't leave your bed, mate,' said Ron. 'I saw you thrash­ing around in your sleep for at least a minute be­fore we could wake you up.'

Har­ry start­ed pac­ing up and down the room again, think­ing. What they were all say­ing was not on­ly com­fort­ing, it made sense… with­out re­al­ly think­ing, he took a sand­wich from the plate on the bed and crammed it hun­gri­ly in­to his mouth.

I'm not the weapon af­ter all, thought Har­ry. His heart swelled with hap­pi­ness and re­lief, and he felt like join­ing in as they heard

Sir­ius tramp­ing past their door to­wards Buck­beak's room, singing 'God Rest Ye, Mer­ry Hip­pogriffs' at the top of his voice.

*

How could he have dreamed of re­turn­ing to Priv­et Drive for Christ­mas? Sir­ius's de­light at hav­ing the house full again, and es­pe­cial­ly at hav­ing Har­ry back, was in­fec­tious. He was no longer their sullen host of the sum­mer; now he seemed de­ter­mined that ev­ery­one should en­joy them­selves as much, if not more than they would have done at Hog­warts, and he worked tire­less­ly in the run-​up to Christ­mas Day, clean­ing and dec­orat­ing with their help, so that by the time they all went to bed on Christ­mas Eve the house was bare­ly recog­nis­able. The tar­nished chan­de­liers were no longer hung with cob­webs but with gar­lands of hol­ly and gold and sil­ver stream­ers; mag­ical snow glit­tered in heaps over the thread­bare car­pets; a great Christ­mas tree, ob­tained by Mundun­gus and dec­orat­ed with live fairies, blocked Sir­ius's fam­ily tree from view, and even the stuffed elf-​heads on the hall wall wore Fa­ther Christ­mas hats and beards.

Har­ry awoke on Christ­mas morn­ing to find a stack of presents at the foot of his bed and Ron al­ready halfway through open­ing his own, rather larg­er, pile.

'Good haul this year,' he in­formed Har­ry through a cloud of pa­per. Thanks for the Broom Com­pass, it's ex­cel­lent; beats Hermiones - she got me a home­work plan­ner -

Har­ry sort­ed through his presents and found one with Hermiones hand­writ­ing on it. She had giv­en him, too, a book that re­sem­bled a di­ary ex­cept that ev­ery time he opened a page it said aloud things like: 'Do it to­day or lat­er you'll pay!'

Sir­ius and Lupin had giv­en Har­ry a set of ex­cel­lent books en­ti­tled Prac­ti­cal De­fen­sive Mag­ic and its Use Against the Dark Arts, which had su­perb, mov­ing colour il­lus­tra­tions of all the counter-​jinx­es and hex­es it de­scribed. Har­ry flicked through the first vol­ume ea­ger­ly; he could see it was go­ing to be high­ly use­ful in his plans for the DA. Ha­grid had sent a fur­ry brown wal­let that had fangs, which were pre­sum­ably sup­posed to be an an­ti-​theft de­vice, but un­for­tu­nate­ly pre­vent­ed Har­ry putting any mon­ey in with­out get­ting his fin­gers ripped off. Tonkss present was a small, work­ing mod­el of a Fire­bolt, which Har­ry watched fly around the room, wish­ing he still had his full-​size ver­sion; Ron had giv­en him an enor­mous box of Ev­ery-​Flavour Beans, Mr and Mrs. Weasley the usu­al hand-​knit­ted jumper and some mince pies, and Dob­by a tru­ly dread­ful paint­ing that Har­ry sus­pect­ed had been done by the elf him­self. He had just turned it up­side-​down to see whether it looked bet­ter that way when, with a loud crack, Fred and George Ap­pa­rat­ed at the foot of his bed.

'Mer­ry Christ­mas,' said George. 'Don't go down­stairs for a bit.'

'Why not?' said Ron.

'Mum's cry­ing again,' said Fred heav­ily. 'Per­cy sent back his Christ­mas jumper.'

'With­out a note,' added George. 'Hasn't asked how Dad is or vis­it­ed him or any­thing.'

'We tried to com­fort her,' said Fred, mov­ing around the bed to look at Har­ry's por­trait. Told her Per­cy's noth­ing more than a hu­mungous pile of rat drop­pings.'

'Didn't work,' said George, help­ing him­self to a Choco­late Frog. 'So Lupin took over. Best let him cheer her up be­fore we go down for break­fast, I reck­on.'

'What's that sup­posed to be, any­way?' asked Fred, squint­ing at Dob­by's paint­ing. 'Looks like a gib­bon with two black eyes.'

'It's Har­ry!' said George, point­ing at the back of the pic­ture, 'says so on the back!'

'Good like­ness,' said Fred, grin­ning. Har­ry threw his new home­work di­ary at him; it hit the wall op­po­site and fell to the floor where it said hap­pi­ly: 'If you've dot­ted the “i”s and crossed the “t”s then you may do what­ev­er you please!'

They got up and dressed. They could hear the var­ious in­hab­itants of the house call­ing 'Mer­ry Christ­mas' to one an­oth­er. On their way down­stairs they met Hermione.

Thanks for the book, Har­ry' she said hap­pi­ly. 'I've been want­ing that New The­ory oj Nu­merol­ogy for ages! And that per­fume's re­al­ly un­usu­al, Ron.'

'No prob­lem,' said Ron. 'Who's that for, any­way?' he added, nod­ding at the neat­ly wrapped present she was car­ry­ing.

'Kreach­er,' said Hermione bright­ly. ;>

'It had bet­ter not be clothes!' Ron warned her. 'You know what Sir­ius said: Kreach­er knows too much, we can't set him free!'

'It isn't clothes,' said Hermione, 'al­though if I had my way I'd cer­tain­ly give him some­thing to wear oth­er than that filthy old rag. No, it's a patch­work quilt, I thought it would bright­en up his bed­room.'

'What bed­room?' said Har­ry, drop­ping his voice to a whis­per as they were pass­ing the por­trait of Sir­ius's moth­er.

'Well, Sir­ius says it's not so much a bed­room, more a kind of -den,' said Hermione. 'Ap­par­ent­ly he sleeps un­der the boil­er in that cup­board off the kitchen.'

Mrs. Weasley was the on­ly per­son in the base­ment when they ar­rived there. She was stand­ing at the stove and sound­ed as though she had a bad head cold as she wished them 'Mer­ry Christ­mas', and they all avert­ed their eyes.

'So, is this Kreach­er's bed­room?' said Ron, strolling over to a dingy door in the cor­ner op­po­site the pantry. Har­ry had nev­er seen it open.

'Yes,' said Hermione, now sound­ing a lit­tle ner­vous. 'Er… I think we'd bet­ter knock.'

Ron rapped on the door with his knuck­les but there was no re­ply.

'He must be sneak­ing around up­stairs,' he said, and with­out fur­ther ado pulled open the door. 'Urgh!'

Har­ry peered in­side. Most of the cup­board was tak­en up with a very large and old-​fash­ioned boil­er, but in the foot of space un­der­neath the pipes Kreach­er had made him­self some­thing that looked like a nest. A jum­ble of as­sort­ed rags and smelly old blan­kets were piled on the floor and the small dent in the mid­dle of it showed where Kreach­er curled up to sleep ev­ery night. Here and there among the ma­te­ri­al were stale bread crusts and mouldy old bits of cheese. In a far cor­ner glint­ed small ob­jects and coins that Har­ry guessed Kreach­er had saved, mag­pie-​like, from Sir­ius's purge of the house, and he had al­so man­aged to re­trieve the sil­ver-​framed fam­ily pho­tographs that Sir­ius had thrown away over the sum­mer. Their glass might be shat­tered, but still the lit­tle black-​and-​white peo­ple in­side them peered up at him haugh­ti­ly, in­clud­ing - he felt a lit­tle jolt in his stom­ach - the dark, heavy-​lid­ded wom­an whose tri­al he had wit­nessed in Dum­ble­dore's Pen­sieve: Bel­la­trix Lestrange. By the looks of it, hers was Kreach­er's favourite pho­to­graph; he had placed it to the fore of all the oth­ers and had mend­ed the glass clum­si­ly with Spel­lotape.

'I think I'll just leave his present here,' said Hermione, lay­ing the pack­age neat­ly in the mid­dle of the de­pres­sion in the rags and blan­kets and clos­ing the door qui­et­ly. 'He'll find it lat­er, that'll be fine.'

'Come to think of it,' said Sir­ius, emerg­ing from the pantry car­ry­ing a large turkey as they closed the cup­board door, 'has any­one ac­tu­al­ly seen Kreach­er late­ly?'

'I haven't seen him since the night we came back here,' said Har­ry. 'You were or­der­ing him out of the kitchen.'

'Yeah…' said Sir­ius, frown­ing. 'You know, I think that's the last time I saw him, too… he must be hid­ing up­stairs some­where.'

'He couldn't have left, could he?' said Har­ry. 'I mean, when you said “out”, maybe he thought you meant get out of the house?'

'No, no, house-​elves can't leave un­less they're giv­en clothes. They're tied to their fam­ily's house,' said Sir­ius.

They can leave the house if they re­al­ly want to,' Har­ry con­tra­dict­ed him. 'Dob­by did, he left the Mal­foys' to give me warn­ings two years ago. He had to pun­ish him­self af­ter­wards, but he still man­aged it.'

Sir­ius looked slight­ly dis­con­cert­ed for a mo­ment, then said, Til look for him lat­er, I ex­pect I'll find him up­stairs cry­ing his eyes out over my moth­er's old bloomers or some­thing. Of course, he might have crawled in­to the air­ing cup­board and died… but I mustn't get my hopes up.'

Fred, George and Ron laughed; Hermione, how­ev­er, looked re­proach­ful. j

Once they had eat­en their Christ­mas lunch, the Weasleys, Har­ry and Hermione were plan­ning to pay Mr Weasley an­oth­er vis­it, es­cort­ed by Mad-​Eye and Lupin. Mundun­gus turned up in time for Christ­mas pud­ding and tri­fle, hav­ing man­aged to 'bor­row' a car for the oc­ca­sion, as the Un­der­ground did not run on Christ­mas Day. The car, which Har­ry doubt­ed very much had been tak­en with the con­sent of its own­er, had been en­larged with a spell like the Weasleys' old Ford An­glia had once been. Al­though nor­mal­ly pro­por­tioned out­side, ten peo­ple with Mundun­gus driv­ing were able to fit in­to it quite com­fort­ably. Mrs. Weasley hes­itat­ed be­fore get­ting in­side - Har­ry knew her dis­ap­proval of Mundun­gus was bat­tling with her dis­like of trav­el­ling with­out mag­ic - but, fi­nal­ly, the cold out­side and her chil­dren's plead­ing tri­umphed, and she set­tled her­self in­to the back seat be­tween Fred and Bill with good grace.

The jour­ney to St Mun­go's was quite quick as there was very lit­tle traf­fic on the roads. A small trick­le of witch­es and wiz­ards was creep­ing furtive­ly up the oth­er­wise de­sert­ed street to vis­it the hos­pi­tal. Har­ry and the oth­ers got out of the car, and Mundun­gus drove off around the cor­ner to wait for them. They strolled ca­su­al­ly to­wards the win­dow where the dum­my in green ny­lon stood, then, one by one, stepped through the glass.

The re­cep­tion area looked pleas­ant­ly fes­tive: the crys­tal orbs that il­lu­mi­nat­ed St Mun­go's had been coloured red and gold to be­come gi­gan­tic, glow­ing Christ­mas baubles; hol­ly hung around ev­ery door­way; and shin­ing white Christ­mas trees cov­ered in mag­ical snow and ici­cles glit­tered in ev­ery cor­ner, each one topped with a gleam­ing gold star. It was less crowd­ed than the last time they had been there, al­though halfway across the room Har­ry found him­self shunt­ed aside by a witch with a sat­suma jammed up her left nos­tril.

'Fam­ily ar­gu­ment, eh?' smirked the blonde witch be­hind the desk. 'You're the third I've seen to­day… Spell Dam­age, fourth floor.'

They found Mr Weasley propped up in bed with the re­mains of his turkey din­ner on a tray on his lap and a rather sheep­ish ex­pres­sion on his face.

'Ev­ery­thing all right, Arthur?' asked Mrs. Weasley, af­ter they had all greet­ed Mr Weasley and hand­ed over their presents.

'Fine, fine,' said Mr Weasley, a lit­tle too hearti­ly. 'You — er — haven't seen Heal­er Smeth­wyck, have you?'

'No,' said Mrs. Weasley sus­pi­cious­ly, 'why?'

'Noth­ing, noth­ing,' said Mr Weasley air­ily, start­ing to un­wrap his pile of gifts. 'Well, ev­ery­one had a good day? What did you all get for Christ­mas? Oh, Har­ry - this is ab­so­lute­ly won­der­ful!' For he had just opened Har­ry's gift of fuse-​wire and screw­drivers.

Mrs. Weasley did not seem en­tire­ly sat­is­fied with Mr Weasley's an­swer. As her hus­band leaned over to shake Har­ry's hand, she peered at the ban­dag­ing un­der his night­shirt.

'Arthur,' she said, with a snap in her voice like a mouse­trap, 'you've had your ban­dages changed. Why have you had your ban­dages changed a day ear­ly, Arthur? They told me they wouldn't need do­ing un­til to­mor­row.'

'What?' said Mr Weasley, look­ing rather fright­ened and pulling the bed cov­ers high­er up his chest. 'No, no - it's noth­ing - it's -l-

He seemed to de­flate un­der Mrs. Weasley's pierc­ing gaze.

'Well - now don't get up­set, Mol­ly, but Au­gus­tus Pye had an idea… he's the Trainee Heal­er, you know, love­ly young chap and very in­ter­est­ed in… um… com­ple­men­tary medicine… I mean, some of these old Mug­gle reme­dies… well, they're called stitch­es, Mol­ly, and they work very well on - on Mug­gle wounds -'

Mrs. Weasley let out an omi­nous noise some­where be­tween a shriek and a snarl. Lupin strolled away from the bed and over to the were­wolf, who had no vis­itors and was look­ing rather wist­ful­ly at the crowd around Mr Weasley; Bill mut­tered some­thing about get­ting him­self a cup of tea and Fred and George leapt up to ac­com­pa­ny him, grin­ning.

'Do you mean to tell me,' said Mrs. Weasley, her voice grow­ing loud­er with ev­ery word and ap­par­ent­ly un­aware that her fel­low vis­itors were scur­ry­ing for cov­er, 'that you have been mess­ing about with Mug­gle reme­dies?'

'Not mess­ing about, Mol­ly, dear,' said Mr Weasley im­plor­ing­ly, 'it was just - just some­thing Pye and I thought we'd try - on­ly, most un­for­tu­nate­ly — well, with these par­tic­ular kinds of wounds - it doesn't seem to work as well as we'd hoped -'

'Mean­ing?'

'Well… well, I don't know whether you know what - what stitch­es are?'

'It sounds as though you've been try­ing to sew your skin back to­geth­er,' said Mrs. Weasley with a snort of mirth­less laugh­ter, 'but even you, Arthur, wouldn't be that stupid —'

'I fan­cy a cup of tea, too,' said Har­ry, jump­ing to his feet.

Hermione, Ron and Gin­ny al­most sprint­ed to the door with him. As it swung closed be­hind them, they heard Mrs. Weasley shriek, 'WHAT DO YOU MEAN, THAT'S THE GEN­ER­AL IDEA?'

Typ­ical Dad,' said Gin­ny, shak­ing her head as they set off up the cor­ri­dor. 'Stitch­es… I ask you…'

'Well, you know, they do work well on non-​mag­ical wounds,' said Hermione fair­ly. 'I sup­pose some­thing in that snake's ven­om dis­solves them or some­thing. I won­der where the tea­room is?'

'Fifth floor,' said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing the sign over the wel­come­witch's desk.

They walked along the cor­ri­dor, through a set of dou­ble doors and found a rick­ety stair­case lined with more por­traits of bru­tal-​look­ing Heal­ers. As they climbed it, the var­ious Heal­ers called out to them, di­ag­nos­ing odd com­plaints and sug­gest­ing hor­ri­ble reme­dies. Ron was se­ri­ous­ly af­front­ed when a me­dieval wiz­ard called out that he clear­ly had a bad case of spat­ter­groit.

'And what's that sup­posed to be?' he asked an­gri­ly, as the Heal­er pur­sued him through six more por­traits, shov­ing the oc­cu­pants out of the way.

'Tis a most grievous af­flic­tion of the skin, young mas­ter, that will leave you pock­marked and more grue­some even than you are now -'

'Watch who you're call­ing grue­some!' said Ron, his ears turn­ing red.

'- the on­ly rem­edy is to take the liv­er of a toad, bind it tight about your throat, stand naked at the full moon in a bar­rel of eels' eyes -'

'I have not got spat­ter­groit!'

'But the un­sight­ly blem­ish­es up­on your vis­age, young mas­ter -'

They're freck­les!' said Ron fu­ri­ous­ly. 'Now get back in your own pic­ture and leave me alone!'

He round­ed on the oth­ers, who were all keep­ing de­ter­mined­ly straight faces.

'What floor's this?'

'I think it's the fifth,' said Hermione.

'Nah, it's the fourth,' said Har­ry, 'one more —'

But as he stepped on to the land­ing he came to an abrupt halt, star­ing at the small win­dow set in­to the dou­ble doors that marked the start of a cor­ri­dor sign­post­ed SPELL DAM­AGE. A man was peer­ing out at them all with his nose pressed against the glass. He had wavy blond hair, bright blue eyes and a broad va­cant smile that re­vealed daz­zling­ly white teeth.

'Blimey!' said Ron, al­so star­ing at the man.

'Oh, my good­ness,' said Hermione sud­den­ly, sound­ing breath­less. 'Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart!'

Their ex-​De­fence Against the Dark Arts teach­er pushed open the doors and moved to­wards them, wear­ing a long lilac dress­ing gown.

'Well, hel­lo there!' he said. 'I ex­pect you'd like my au­to­graph, would you?'

'Hasn't changed much, has he?' Har­ry mut­tered to Gin­ny, who grinned.

'Er — how are you, Pro­fes­sor?' said Ron, sound­ing slight­ly guilty. It had been Ron's mal­func­tion­ing wand that had dam­aged Pro­fes­sor Lock­hart's mem­ory so bad­ly that he had land­ed in St Mun­go's in the first place, though as Lock­hart had been at­tempt­ing to per­ma­nent­ly wipe Har­ry and Ron's mem­ories at the time, Har­rys sym­pa­thy was lim­it­ed.

'I'm very well in­deed, thank you!' said Lock­hart ex­uber­ant­ly, pulling a rather bat­tered pea­cock-​feath­er quill from his pock­et. 'Now, how many au­to­graphs would you like? I can do joined-​up writ­ing now, you know!'

'Er - we don't want any at the mo­ment, thanks,' said Ron, rais­ing his eye­brows at Har­ry, who asked, 'Pro­fes­sor, should you be wan­der­ing around the cor­ri­dors? Shouldn't you be in a ward?'

The smile fad­ed slow­ly from Lock­hart's face. For a few mo­ments he gazed in­tent­ly at Har­ry, then he said, 'Haven't we met?'

'Er… yeah, we have,' said Har­ry. 'You used to teach us at Hog­warts, re­mem­ber?'

Teach?' re­peat­ed Lock­hart, look­ing faint­ly un­set­tled. 'Me? Did I?'

And then the smile reap­peared up­on his face so sud­den­ly it was rather alarm­ing.

Taught you ev­ery­thing you know, I ex­pect, did I? Well, how about those au­to­graphs, then? Shall we say a round dozen, you can give them to all your lit­tle friends then and no­body will be left out!'

But just then a head poked out of a door at the far end of the cor­ri­dor and a voice called, 'Gilderoy, you naughty boy, where have you wan­dered off to?'

A moth­er­ly-​look­ing Heal­er wear­ing a tin­sel wreath in her hair came bustling up the cor­ri­dor, smil­ing warm­ly at Har­ry and the oth­ers.

'Oh, Gilderoy, you've got vis­itors! How love­ly, and on Christ­mas Day, too! Do you know, he nev­er gets vis­itors, poor lamb, and I can't think why, he's such a sweet­ie, aren't you?'

'We're do­ing au­to­graphs!' Gilderoy told the Heal­er with an­oth­er glit­ter­ing smile. They want loads of them, won't take no for an an­swer! I just hope we've got enough pho­tographs!'

'Lis­ten to him,' said the Heal­er, tak­ing Lock­hart's arm and beam­ing fond­ly at him as though he were a pre­co­cious two-​year-​old. 'He was rather well known a few years ago; we very much hope that this lik­ing for giv­ing au­to­graphs is a sign that his mem­ory might be start­ing to come back. Will you step this way? He's in a closed ward, you know, he must have slipped out while I was bring­ing in the Christ­mas presents, the door's usu­al­ly kept locked… not that he's dan­ger­ous! But,' she low­ered her voice to a whis­per, 'he's a bit of a dan­ger to him­self, bless him… doesn't know who he is, you see, wan­ders off and can't re­mem­ber how to get back… it is nice of you to have come to see him.'

'Er,' said Ron, ges­tur­ing use­less­ly at the floor above, 'ac­tu­al­ly, we were just — er -'

But the Heal­er was smil­ing ex­pec­tant­ly at them, and Ron's fee­ble mut­ter of 'go­ing to have a cup of tea' trailed away in­to noth­ing­ness. They looked at each oth­er help­less­ly, then fol­lowed Lock­hart and his Heal­er along the cor­ri­dor.

'Let's not stay long,' Ron said qui­et­ly.

The Heal­er point­ed her wand at the door of the Janus Thick­ey Ward and mut­tered, 'Alo­homo­ra.' The door swung open and she led the way in­side, keep­ing a firm grasp on Gilderoys arm un­til she had set­tled him in­to an arm­chair be­side his bed.

This is our long-​term res­idents' ward,' she in­formed Har­ry, Ron,

Hermione and Gin­ny in a low voice. 'For per­ma­nent spell dam­age, you know. Of course, with in­ten­sive re­me­di­al po­tions and charms and a bit of luck, we can pro­duce some im­prove­ment. Gilderoy does seem to be get­ting back some sense of him­self; and we've seen a re­al im­prove­ment in Mr Bode, he seems to be re­gain­ing the pow­er of speech very well, though he isn't speak­ing any lan­guage we recog­nise yet. Well, I must fin­ish giv­ing out the Christ­mas presents, I'll leave you all to chat.'

Har­ry looked around. The ward bore un­mis­take­able signs of be­ing a per­ma­nent home to its res­idents. They had many more per­son­al ef­fects around their beds than in Mr Weasley's ward; the wall around Gilderoy's head­board, for in­stance, was pa­pered with pic­tures of him­self, all beam­ing toothily and wav­ing at the new ar­rivals. He had au­to­graphed many of them to him­self in dis­joint­ed, child­ish writ­ing. The mo­ment he had been de­posit­ed in his chair by the Heal­er, Gilderoy pulled a fresh stack of pho­tographs to­wards him, seized a quill and start­ed sign­ing them all fever­ish­ly.

'You can put them in en­velopes,' he said to Gin­ny, throw­ing the signed pic­tures in­to her lap one by one as he fin­ished them. 'I am not for­got­ten, you know, no, I still re­ceive a very great deal of fan mail… Gladys Gud­geon writes week­ly … I just wish I knew why He paused, look­ing faint­ly puz­zled, then beamed again and re­turned to his sign­ing with re­newed vigour. '1 sus­pect it is sim­ply my good looks…'

A sal­low-​skinned, mourn­ful-​look­ing wiz­ard lay in the bed op­po­site star­ing at the ceil­ing; he was mum­bling to him­self and seemed quite un­aware of any­thing around him. Two beds along was a wom­an whose en­tire head was cov­ered in fur; Har­ry re­mem­bered some­thing sim­ilar hap­pen­ing to Hermione dur­ing their sec­ond year, al­though for­tu­nate­ly the dam­age, in her case, had not been per­ma­nent. At the far end of the ward flow­ery cur­tains had been drawn around two beds to give the oc­cu­pants and their vis­itors some pri­va­cy.

'Here you are, Agnes,' said the Heal­er bright­ly to the fur­ry-​faced wom­an, hand­ing her a small pile of Christ­mas presents. 'See, not for­got­ten, are you? And your son's sent an owl to say he's vis­it­ing tonight, so that's nice, isn't it?'

Agnes gave sev­er­al loud barks.

'And look, Brod­er­ick, you've been sent a pot plant and a love­ly cal­en­dar with a dif­fer­ent fan­cy Hip­pogriff for each month; they'll bright­en things up, won't they?' said the Heal­er, bustling along to the mum­bling man, set­ting a rather ug­ly plant with long, sway­ing ten­ta­cles on the bed­side cab­inet and fix­ing the cal­en­dar to the wall with her wand. 'And - oh, Mrs. Long­bot­tom, are you leav­ing al­ready?'

Har­ry's head span round. The cur­tains had been drawn back from the two beds at the end of the ward and two vis­itors were walk­ing back down the aisle be­tween the beds: a formidable-​look­ing old witch wear­ing a long green dress, a moth-​eat­en fox fur and a point­ed hat dec­orat­ed with what was un­mis­take­ably a stuffed vul­ture and, trail­ing be­hind her look­ing thor­ough­ly de­pressed - Neville.

With a sud­den rush of un­der­stand­ing, Har­ry re­alised who the peo­ple in the end beds must be. He cast around wild­ly for some means of dis­tract­ing the oth­ers so that Neville could leave the ward un­no­ticed and un­ques­tioned, but Ron had al­so looked up at the sound of the name 'Long­bot­tom', and be­fore Har­ry could stop him had called out, 'Neville!'

Neville jumped and cow­ered as though a bul­let had nar­row­ly missed him.

'It's us, Neville!' said Ron bright­ly, get­ting to his feet. 'Have you seen -? Lock­hart's here! Who've you been vis­it­ing?'

'Friends of yours, Neville, dear?' said Neville's grand­moth­er gra­cious­ly, bear­ing down up­on them all.

Neville looked as though he would rather be any­where in the world but here. A dull pur­ple flush was creep­ing up his plump face and he was not mak­ing eye con­tact with any of them.

'Ah, yes,' said his grand­moth­er, look­ing close­ly at Har­ry and stick­ing out a shriv­elled, claw­like hand for him to shake. 'Yes, yes, I know who you are, of course. Neville speaks most high­ly of you.'

'Er - thanks,' said Har­ry, shak­ing hands. Neville did not look at him, but sur­veyed his own feet, the colour deep­en­ing in his face all the while.

'And you two are clear­ly Weasleys,' Mrs. Long­bot­tom con­tin­ued, prof­fer­ing her hand re­gal­ly to Ron and Gin­ny in turn. 'Yes, I know your par­ents — not well, of course — but fine peo­ple, fine peo­ple… and you must be Hermione Granger?'

Hermione looked rather star­tled that Mrs. Long­bot­tom knew her name, but shook hands all the same.

'Yes, Neville's told me all about you. Helped him out of a few sticky spots, haven't you? He's a good boy,' she said, cast­ing a stern­ly ap­prais­ing look down her rather bony nose at Neville, 'but he hasn't got his fa­ther's tal­ent, I'm afraid to say.' And she jerked her head in the di­rec­tion of the two beds at the end of the ward, so that the stuffed vul­ture on her hat trem­bled alarm­ing­ly.

'What?' said Ron, look­ing amazed. (Har­ry want­ed to stamp on Ron's foot, but that sort of thing is much hard­er to bring off un­no­ticed when you're wear­ing jeans rather than robes.) 'Is that your dad down the end, Neville?'

'What's this?' said Mrs. Long­bot­tom sharply. 'Haven't you told your friends about your par­ents, Neville?'

Neville took a deep breath, looked up at the ceil­ing and shook his head. Har­ry could not re­mem­ber ev­er feel­ing sor­ri­er for any­one, but he could not think of any way of help­ing Neville out of the sit­ua­tion.

'Well, it's noth­ing to be ashamed of!' said Mrs. Long­bot­tom an­gri­ly. 'You should be proud, Neville, proudl They didn't give their health and their san­ity so their on­ly son would be ashamed of them, you know!'

'I'm not ashamed,' said Neville, very faint­ly, still look­ing any­where but at Har­ry and the oth­ers. Ron was now stand­ing on tip­toe to look over at the in­hab­itants of the two beds.

'Well, you've got a fun­ny way of show­ing it!' said Mrs. Long­bot­tom. 'My son and his wife,' she said, turn­ing haugh­ti­ly to Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny, 'were tor­tured in­to in­san­ity by You-​Know-​Who's fol­low­ers.'

Hermione and Gin­ny both clapped their hands over their mouths. Ron stopped cran­ing his neck to catch a glimpse of Neville's par­ents and looked mor­ti­fied.

They were Au­rors, you know, and very well re­spect­ed with­in the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty' Mrs. Long­bot­tom went on. 'High­ly gift­ed, the pair of them. I - yes, Al­ice dear, what is it?'

Neville's moth­er had come edg­ing down the ward in her night­dress. She no longer had the plump, hap­py-​look­ing face Har­ry had seen in Moody's old pho­to­graph of the orig­inal Or­der of the Phoenix. Her face was thin and worn now, her eyes seemed over­large and her hair, which had turned white, was wispy and dead-​look­ing. She did not seem to want to speak, or per­haps she was not able to, but she made timid mo­tions to­wards Neville, hold­ing some­thing in her out­stretched hand.

'Again?' said Mrs. Long­bot­tom, sound­ing slight­ly weary. 'Very well, Al­ice dear, very well - Neville, take it, what­ev­er it is.'

But Neville had al­ready stretched out his hand, in­to which his moth­er dropped an emp­ty Drooble's Best Blow­ing Gum wrap­per.

'Very nice, dear,' said Neville's grand­moth­er in a false­ly cheery voice, pat­ting his moth­er on the shoul­der.

But Neville said qui­et­ly, Thanks, Mum.'

His moth­er tot­tered away, back up the ward, hum­ming to her­self. Neville looked around at the oth­ers, his ex­pres­sion de­fi­ant, as though dar­ing them to laugh, but Har­ry did not think he'd ev­er found any­thing less fun­ny in his life.

'Well, we'd bet­ter get back,' sighed Mrs. Long­bot­tom, draw­ing on long green gloves. 'Very nice to have met you all. Neville, put that wrap­per in the bin, she must have giv­en you enough of them to pa­per your bed­room by now.'

But as they left, Har­ry was sure he saw Neville slip the sweet wrap­per in­to his pock­et.

The door closed be­hind them.

'I nev­er knew,' said Hermione, who looked tear­ful.

'Nor did I,' said Ron rather hoarse­ly.

'Nor me,' whis­pered Gin­ny.

They all looked at Har­ry.

'I did,' he said glum­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore told me but I promised I wouldn't tell any­one… that's what Bel­la­trix Lestrange got sent to Azk­aban for, us­ing the Cru­cia­tus Curse on Neville's par­ents un­til they lost their minds.'

'Bel­la­trix Lestrange did that?' whis­pered Hermione, hor­ri­fied. That wom­an Kreach­er's got a pho­to of in his den?'

There was a long si­lence, bro­ken by Lock­harts an­gry voice.

'Look, I didn't learn joined-​up writ­ing for noth­ing, you know!'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 24 - Occlumency


Kreach­er, it tran­spired, had been lurk­ing in the at­tic. Sir­ius said he had found him up there, cov­ered in dust, no doubt look­ing for more relics of the Black fam­ily to hide in his cup­board. Though Sir­ius seemed sat­is­fied with this sto­ry, it made Har­ry un­easy. Kreach­er seemed to be in a bet­ter mood on his reap­pear­ance, his bit­ter mut­ter­ing had sub­sid­ed some­what and he sub­mit­ted to or­ders more docile­ly than usu­al, though once or twice Har­ry caught the house-​elf star­ing at him avid­ly, but al­ways look­ing quick­ly away when­ev­er he saw that Har­ry had no­ticed.

Har­ry did not men­tion his vague sus­pi­cions to Sir­ius, whose cheer­ful­ness was evap­orat­ing fast now that Christ­mas was over. As the date of their de­par­ture back to Hog­warts drew near­er, he be­came more and more prone to what Mrs. Weasley called 'fits of the sul-​lens', in which he would be­come tac­iturn and grumpy, of­ten with­draw­ing to Buck­beak's room for hours at a time. His gloom seeped through the house, ooz­ing un­der door­ways like some nox­ious gas, so that all of them be­came in­fect­ed by it.

Har­ry didn't want to leave Sir­ius again with on­ly Kreach­er for com­pa­ny; in fact, for the first time in his life, he was not look­ing for­ward to re­turn­ing to Hog­warts. Go­ing back to school would mean plac­ing him­self once again un­der the tyran­ny of Do­lores Um­bridge, who had no doubt man­aged to force through an­oth­er dozen de­crees in their ab­sence; there was no Quid­ditch to look for­ward to now that he had been banned; there was ev­ery like­li­hood that their bur­den of home­work would in­crease as the ex­ams drew even near­er; and Dum­ble­dore re­mained as re­mote as ev­er. In fact, if it hadn't been for the DA, Har­ry thought he might have begged Sir­ius to let him leave Hog­warts and re­main in Grim­mauld Place.

Then, on the very last day of the hol­idays, some­thing hap­pened that made Har­ry pos­itive­ly dread his re­turn to school.

'Har­ry, dear,' said Mrs. Weasley, pok­ing her head in­to his and Ron's bed­room, where the pair of them were play­ing wiz­ard chess watched by Hermione, Gin­ny and Crook­shanks, 'could you come down to the kitchen? Pro­fes­sor Snape would like a word with you.'

Har­ry did not im­me­di­ate­ly reg­is­ter what she had said; one of his cas­tles was en­gaged in a vi­olent tus­sle with a pawn of Rons and he was egging it on en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

'Squash him - squash him, he's on­ly a pawn, you id­iot. Sor­ry, Mrs. Weasley, what did you say?'

'Pro­fes­sor Snape, dear. In the kitchen. He'd like a word.'

Har­ry's mouth fell open in hor­ror. He looked around at Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny, all of whom were gap­ing back at him. Crook­shanks, whom Hermione had been re­strain­ing with dif­fi­cul­ty for the past quar­ter of an hour, leapt glee­ful­ly on to the board and set the pieces run­ning for cov­er, squeal­ing at the top of their voic­es.

'Snape?' said Har­ry blankly.

'Pro­fes­sor Snape, dear,' said Mrs. Weasley re­prov­ing­ly. 'Now come on, quick­ly, he says he can't stay long.'

'What's he want with you?' said Ron, look­ing un­nerved as Mrs. Weasley with­drew from the room. 'You haven't done any­thing, have you?'

'No!' said Har­ry in­dig­nant­ly, rack­ing his brains to think what he could have done that would make Snape pur­sue him to Grim­mauld Place. Had his last piece of home­work per­haps earned a T?

A minute or two lat­er, he pushed open the kitchen door to find Sir­ius and Snape both seat­ed at the long kitchen ta­ble, glar­ing in op­po­site di­rec­tions. The si­lence be­tween them was heavy with mu­tu­al dis­like. A let­ter lay open on the ta­ble in front of Sir­ius.

'Er,' said Har­ry, to an­nounce his pres­ence.

Snape looked around at him, his face framed be­tween cur­tains of greasy black hair.

'Sit down, Pot­ter.'

'You know,' said Sir­ius loud­ly, lean­ing back on his rear chair legs and speak­ing to the ceil­ing, 'I think I'd pre­fer it if you didn't give or­ders here, Snape. It's my house, you see.'

An ug­ly flush suf­fused Snape's pal­lid face. Har­ry sat down in a chair be­side Sir­ius, fac­ing Snape across the ta­ble.

'I was sup­posed to see you alone, Pot­ter,' said Snape, the fa­mil­iar sneer curl­ing his mouth, 'but Black -'

'I'm his god­fa­ther,' said Sir­ius, loud­er than ev­er.

'I am here on Dum­ble­dore's or­ders,' said Snape, whose voice, by con­trast, was be­com­ing more and more qui­et­ly waspish, 'but by all means stay, Black, I know you like to feel… in­volved.'

'What's that sup­posed to mean?' said Sir­ius, let­ting his chair fall back on to all four legs with a loud bang.

'Mere­ly that I am sure you must feel - ah - frus­trat­ed by the fact that you can do noth­ing use­ful,' Snape laid a del­icate stress on the word, 'for the Or­der.'

It was Sir­ius's turn to flush. Snape's lip curled in tri­umph as he turned to Har­ry.

The Head­mas­ter has sent me to tell you, Pot­ter, that it is his wish for you to study Oc­clu­men­cy this term.'

'Study what?' said Har­ry blankly.

Snape's sneer be­came more pro­nounced.

'Oc­clu­men­cy, Pot­ter. The mag­ical de­fence of the mind against ex­ter­nal pen­etra­tion. An ob­scure branch of mag­ic, but a high­ly use­ful one.'

Har­ry's heart be­gan to pump very fast in­deed. De­fence against ex­ter­nal pen­etra­tion? But he was not be­ing pos­sessed, they had all agreed on that…

'Why do I have to study Oc­clu— thing?' he blurt­ed out.

'Be­cause the Head­mas­ter thinks it a good idea,' said Snape smooth­ly. 'You will re­ceive pri­vate lessons once a week, but you will not tell any­body what you are do­ing, least of all Do­lores Um­bridge. You un­der­stand?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry. 'Who's go­ing to be teach­ing me?'

Snape raised an eye­brow.

'I am,' he said.

Har­ry had the hor­ri­ble sen­sa­tion that his in­sides were melt­ing.

Ex­tra lessons with Snape - what on earth had he done to de­serve this? He looked quick­ly round at Sir­ius for sup­port.

'Why can't Dum­ble­dore teach Har­ry?' asked Sir­ius ag­gres­sive­ly. 'Why you?'

'I sup­pose be­cause it is a head­mas­ter's priv­ilege to del­egate less en­joy­able tasks,' said Snape silk­ily. 'I as­sure you I did not beg for the job.' He got to his feet. 'I will ex­pect you at six o'clock on Mon­day evening, Pot­ter. My of­fice. If any­body asks, you are tak­ing re­me­di­al Po­tions. No­body who has seen you in my class­es could de­ny you need them.'

He turned to leave, his black trav­el­ling cloak bil­low­ing be­hind him.

'Wait a mo­ment,' said Sir­ius, sit­ting up straighter in his chair.

Snape turned back to face them, sneer­ing.

'I am in rather a hur­ry, Black. Un­like you, I do not have un­lim­it­ed leisure time.'

Til get to the point, then,' said Sir­ius, stand­ing up. He was rather taller than Snape who, Har­ry no­ticed, balled his fist in the pock­et of his cloak over what Har­ry was sure was the han­dle of his wand. 'If I hear you're us­ing these Oc­clu­men­cy lessons to give Har­ry a hard time, you'll have me to an­swer to.'

'How touch­ing,' Snape sneered. 'But sure­ly you have no­ticed that Pot­ter is very like his fa­ther?'

'Yes, I have,' said Sir­ius proud­ly.

'Well then, you'll know he's so ar­ro­gant that crit­icism sim­ply bounces off him,' Snape said sleek­ly.

Sir­ius pushed his chair rough­ly aside and strode around the ta­ble to­wards Snape, pulling out his wand as he went. Snape whipped out his own. They were squar­ing up to each oth­er, Sir­ius look­ing livid, Snape cal­cu­lat­ing, his eyes dart­ing from Sir­ius's wand-​tip to his face.

'Sir­ius!' said Har­ry loud­ly, but Sir­ius ap­peared not to hear him.

'I've warned you, Snivd­lus,' said Sir­ius, his face bare­ly a foot from Snape's, 'I don't care if Dum­ble­dore thinks you've re­formed, I know bet­ter -'

'Oh, but why don't you tell him so?' whis­pered Snape. 'Or are you afraid he might not take very se­ri­ous­ly the ad­vice of a man who has been hid­ing in­side his moth­er's house for six months?'

Tell me, how is Lu­cius Mal­foy these days? I ex­pect he's de­light­ed his lap­dog's work­ing at Hog­warts, isn't he?'

'Speak­ing of dogs,' said Snape soft­ly, 'did you know that Lu­cius Mal­foy recog­nised you last time you risked a lit­tle jaunt out­side? Clever idea, Black, get­ting your­self seen on a safe sta­tion plat­form… gave you a cast-​iron ex­cuse not to leave your hidey-​hole in fu­ture, didn't it?'

Sir­ius raised his wand.

'NO!' Har­ry yelled, vault­ing over the ta­ble and try­ing to get in be­tween them. 'Sir­ius, don't!'

'Are you call­ing me a cow­ard?' roared Sir­ius, try­ing to push Har­ry out of the way, but Har­ry would not budge.

'Why, yes, I sup­pose I am,' said Snape.

'Har­ry - get - out - of - it!' snarled Sir­ius, push­ing him aside with his free hand.

The kitchen door opened and the en­tire Weasley fam­ily, plus Hermione, came in­side, all look­ing very hap­py, with Mr Weasley walk­ing proud­ly in their midst dressed in a pair of striped py­ja­mas cov­ered by a mack­in­tosh.

'Cured!' he an­nounced bright­ly to the kitchen at large. 'Com­plete­ly cured!'

He and all the oth­er Weasleys froze on the thresh­old, gaz­ing at the scene in front of them, which was al­so sus­pend­ed in mid-​ac­tion, both Sir­ius and Snape look­ing to­wards the door with their wands point­ing in­to each oth­er's faces and Har­ry im­mo­bile be­tween them, a hand stretched out to each, try­ing to force them apart.

'Mer­lin's beard,' said Mr Weasley, the smile slid­ing off his face, 'what's go­ing on here?'

Both Sir­ius and Snape low­ered their wands. Har­ry looked from one to the oth­er. Each wore an ex­pres­sion of ut­most con­tempt, yet the un­ex­pect­ed en­trance of so many wit­ness­es seemed to have brought them to their sens­es. Snape pock­et­ed his wand, turned on his heel and swept back across the kitchen, pass­ing the Weasleys with­out com­ment. At the door he looked back.

'Six o'clock, Mon­day evening, Pot­ter.'

And he was gone. Sir­ius glared af­ter him, his wand at his side.

'What's been go­ing on?' asked Mr Weasley again.

'Noth­ing, Arthur,' said Sir­ius, who was breath­ing heav­ily as though he had just run a long dis­tance. 'Just a friend­ly lit­tle chat be­tween two old school friends.' With what looked like an enor­mous ef­fort, he smiled. 'So… you're cured? That's great news, re­al­ly great.'

'Yes, isn't it?' said Mrs. Weasley, lead­ing her hus­band for­ward to a chair. 'Heal­er Smeth­wyck worked his mag­ic in the end, found an an­ti­dote to what­ev­er that snake's got in its fangs, and Arthur's learned his les­son about dab­bling in Mug­gle medicine, haven't you, dear?' she added, rather men­ac­ing­ly.

'Yes, Mol­ly, dear,' said Mr Weasley meek­ly.

That night's meal should have been a cheer­ful one, with Mr Weasley back amongst them. Har­ry could tell Sir­ius was try­ing to make it so, yet when his god­fa­ther was not forc­ing him­self to laugh loud­ly at Fred and George's jokes or of­fer­ing ev­ery­one more food, his face fell back in­to a moody, brood­ing ex­pres­sion. Har­ry was sep­arat­ed from him by Mundun­gus and Mad-​Eye, who had dropped in to of­fer Mr Weasley their con­grat­ula­tions. He want­ed to talk to Sir­ius, to tell him he shouldn't lis­ten to a word Snape said, that Snape was goad­ing him de­lib­er­ate­ly and that the rest of them didn't think Sir­ius was a cow­ard for do­ing as Dum­ble­dore told him and re­main­ing in Grim­mauld Place. But he had no op­por­tu­ni­ty to do so, and, eye­ing the ug­ly look on Sir­ius's face, Har­ry won­dered oc­ca­sion­al­ly whether he would have dared to men­tion it even if he had the chance. In­stead, he told Ron and Hermione un­der his voice about hav­ing to take Oc­clu­men­cy lessons with Snape.

'Dum­ble­dore wants to stop you hav­ing those dreams about Volde­mort,' said Hermione at once. 'Well, you won't be sor­ry not to have them any more, will you?'

'Ex­tra lessons with Snape?' said Ron, sound­ing aghast. 'I'd rather have the night­mares!'

They were to re­turn to Hog­warts on the Knight Bus the fol­low­ing day, es­cort­ed once again by Tonks and Lupin, both of whom were eat­ing break­fast in the kitchen when Har­ry, Ron and Hermione came down next morn­ing. The adults seemed to have been mid-​way through a whis­pered con­ver­sa­tion as Har­ry opened the door; all of them looked round hasti­ly and fell silent.

Af­ter a hur­ried break­fast, they all pulled on jack­ets and scarves . against the chilly grey Jan­uary morn­ing. Har­ry had an un­pleas­ant con­strict­ed sen­sa­tion in his chest; he did not want to say good­bye to Sir­ius. He had a bad feel­ing about this part­ing; he didn't know . when they would next see each oth­er and he felt it was in­cum­bent up­on him to say some­thing to Sir­ius to stop him do­ing any­thing stupid - Har­ry was wor­ried that Snape's ac­cu­sa­tion of cow­ardice had stung Sir­ius so bad­ly he might even now be plan­ning some fool­hardy trip be­yond Grim­mauld Place. Be­fore he could think of what to say, how­ev­er, Sir­ius had beck­oned him to his side.

'1 want you to take this,' he said qui­et­ly, thrust­ing a bad­ly wrapped pack­age rough­ly the size of a pa­per­back book in­to Har­ry's hands.

'What is it?' Har­ry asked.

'A way of let­ting me know if Snape's giv­ing you a hard time.r No, don't open it in here!' said Sir­ius, with a wary look at Mrs. Weasley, who was try­ing to per­suade the twins to wear hand-​knit­ted mit­tens. 'I doubt Mol­ly would ap­prove - but I want you to use it if you need me, all right?'

'OK,' said Har­ry, stow­ing the pack­age away in the in­side pock­et of his jack­et, but he knew he would nev­er use what­ev­er it was. It would not be he, Har­ry, who lured Sir­ius from his place of safe­ty, no mat­ter how foul­ly Snape treat­ed him in their forth­com­ing Oc­clu­men­cy class­es.

'Let's go, then,' said Sir­ius, clap­ping Har­ry on the shoul­der and smil­ing grim­ly, and be­fore Har­ry could say any­thing else, they were head­ing up­stairs, stop­ping be­fore the heav­ily chained and bolt­ed front door, sur­round­ed by Weasleys.

'Good­bye, Har­ry, take care,' said Mrs. Weasley, hug­ging him.

'See you, Har­ry, and keep an eye out for snakes for me!' said Mr Weasley ge­nial­ly, shak­ing his hand.

'Right - yeah,' said Har­ry dis­tract­ed­ly; it was his last chance to tell Sir­ius to be care­ful; he turned, looked in­to his god­fa­ther's face :. and opened his mouth to speak, but be­fore he could do so Sir­ius ij il was giv­ing him a brief, one-​armed hug, and say­ing gruffly, 'Look af­ter your­self, Har­ry.' Next mo­ment, Har­ry found him­self be­ing shunt­ed out in­to the icy win­ter air, with Tonks (to­day heav­ily dis­guised as a tall, tweedy wom­an with iron-​grey hair) chivvy­ing him down the steps.

The door of num­ber twelve slammed shut be­hind them. They fol­lowed Lupin down the front steps. As he reached the pave­ment, Har­ry looked round. Num­ber twelve was shrink­ing rapid­ly as those on ei­ther side of it stretched side­ways, squeez­ing it out of sight. One blink lat­er, it had gone.

'Come on, the quick­er we get on the bus the bet­ter,' said Tonks, and Har­ry thought there was ner­vous­ness in the glance she threw around the square. Lupin flung out his right arm.

BANG.

A vi­olent­ly pur­ple, triple-​deck­er bus had ap­peared out of thin air in front of them, nar­row­ly avoid­ing the near­est lamp­post, which jumped back­wards out of its way.

A thin, pim­ply, jug-​eared youth in a pur­ple uni­form leapt down on to the pave­ment and said, 'Wel­come to the -'

'Yes, yes, we know, thank you,' said Tonks swift­ly. 'On, on, get on -'

And she shoved Har­ry for­wards to­wards the steps, past the con­duc­tor, who gog­gled at Har­ry as he passed.

'Ere - it's 'Any -!'

'If you shout his name I will curse you in­to obliv­ion,' mut­tered Tonks men­ac­ing­ly, now shunt­ing Gin­ny and Hermione for­wards.

'I've al­ways want­ed to go on this thing,' said Ron hap­pi­ly, join­ing Har­ry on board and look­ing around.

It had been evening the last time Har­ry had trav­elled by Knight Bus and its three decks had been full of brass bed­steads. Now, in the ear­ly morn­ing, it was crammed with an as­sort­ment of mis­matched chairs grouped hap­haz­ard­ly around win­dows. Some of these ap­peared to have fall­en over when the bus stopped abrupt­ly in Grim­mauld Place; a few witch­es and wiz­ards were still get­ting to their feet, grum­bling, and some­body's shop­ping bag had slid the length of the bus: an un­pleas­ant mix­ture of frogspawn, cock­roach­es and cus­tard creams was scat­tered all over the floor.

'Looks like we'll have to split up,' said Tonks briskly, look­ing around for emp­ty chairs. 'Fred, George and Gin­ny, if you just take those seats at the back… Re­mus can stay with you.'

She, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione pro­ceed­ed up to the very top deck, where there were two un­oc­cu­pied chairs at the very front of the bus and two at the back. Stan Shun­pike, the con­duc­tor, fol­lowed Har­ry and Ron ea­ger­ly to the back. Heads turned as Har­ry passed and, when he sat down, he saw all the faces flick back to the front again.

As Har­ry and Ron hand­ed Stan eleven Sick­les each, the bus set off again, sway­ing omi­nous­ly. It rum­bled around Grim­mauld Place, weav­ing on and off the pave­ment, then, with an­oth­er tremen­dous BANG, they were all flung back­wards; Ron's chair top­pled right over and Pig­wid­geon, who had been on his lap, burst out of his cage and flew twit­ter­ing wild­ly up to the front of the bus where he flut­tered down on to Hermione's shoul­der in­stead. Har­ry, who had nar­row­ly avoid­ed falling by seiz­ing a can­dle brack­et, looked out of the win­dow: they were now speed­ing down what ap­peared to be a mo­tor­way.

'Just out­side Birm­ing­ham,' said Stan hap­pi­ly, an­swer­ing Har­ry's unasked ques­tion as Ron strug­gled up from the floor. 'You keepin' well, then, 'Ar­ry? I seen your name in the pa­per loads over the sum­mer, but it weren't nev­er nuffink very nice. I said to Ern, I said, 'e didn't seem like a nut­ter when we met 'im, just goes to show, dun­nit?'

He hand­ed over their tick­ets and con­tin­ued to gaze, en­thralled, at Har­ry. Ap­par­ent­ly, Stan did not care how nut­ty some­body was, if they were fa­mous enough to be in the pa­per. The Knight Bus swayed alarm­ing­ly, over­tak­ing a line of cars on the in­side. Look­ing to­wards the front of the bus, Har­ry saw Hermione cov­er her eyes with her hands, Pig­wid­geon sway­ing hap­pi­ly on her shoul­der.

BANG.

Chairs slid back­wards again as the Knight Bus jumped from the Birm­ing­ham mo­tor­way to a qui­et coun­try lane full of hair­pin bends. Hedgerows on ei­ther side of the road were leap­ing out of their way as they mount­ed the verges. From here they moved to a main street in the mid­dle of a busy town, then to a viaduct sur­round­ed by tall hills, then to a windswept road be­tween high-​rise flats, each time with a loud BANG.

'I've changed my mind,' mut­tered Ron, pick­ing him­self up from the floor for the sixth time, 'I nev­er want to ride on this thing again.'

'Lis­ten, it's 'Og­warts stop af­ter this,' said Stan bright­ly, sway­ing to­wards them. That bossy wom­an up front 'oo got on with you, she's giv­en us a lit­tle tip to move you up the queue. We're just gonna let Madam Marsh off first, though -' there was a retch­ing sound from down­stairs, fol­lowed by a hor­ri­ble spat­ter­ing noise '- she's not feel­ing 'er best.'

A few min­utes lat­er, the Knight Bus screeched to a halt out­side a small pub, which squeezed it­self out of the way to avoid a col­li­sion. They could hear Stan ush­er­ing the un­for­tu­nate Madam Marsh out of the bus and the re­lieved mur­mur­ings of her fel­low pas­sen­gers on the sec­ond deck. The bus moved on again, gath­er­ing speed, un­til -

BANG.

They were rolling through a snowy Hogsmeade. Har­ry caught a glimpse of the Hog's Head down its side street, the sev­ered boar's head sign creak­ing in the win­try wind. Flecks of snow hit the large win­dow at the front of the bus. At last they rolled to a halt out­side the gates to Hog­warts.

Lupin and Tonks helped them off the bus with their lug­gage, then got off to say good­bye. Har­ry glanced up at the three decks of the Knight Bus and saw all the pas­sen­gers star­ing down at them, noses flat against the win­dows.

'You'll be safe once you're in the grounds,' said Tonks, cast­ing a care­ful eye around at the de­sert­ed road. 'Have a good term, OK?'

'Look af­ter your­selves,' said Lupin, shak­ing hands all round and reach­ing Har­ry last. 'And lis­ten…" he low­ered his voice while the rest of them ex­changed last-​minute good­byes with Tonks, 'Har­ry, I know you don't like Snape, but he is a su­perb Oc­clu­mens and we all - Sir­ius in­clud­ed - want you to learn to pro­tect your­self, so work hard, all right?'

'Yeah, all right,' said Har­ry heav­ily, look­ing up in­to Lupin's pre­ma­ture­ly lined face. 'See you, then.'

The six of them strug­gled up the slip­pery drive to­wards the cas­tle, drag­ging their trunks. Hermione was al­ready talk­ing about knit­ting a few elf hats be­fore bed­time. Har­ry glanced back when they reached the oak­en front doors; the Knight Bus had al­ready gone and he half-​wished, giv­en what was com­ing the fol­low­ing evening, that he was still on board.

*

Har­ry spent most of the next day dread­ing the evening. His morn­ing dou­ble-​Po­tions les­son did noth­ing to dis­pel his trep­ida­tion, as Snape was as un­pleas­ant as ev­er. His mood was fur­ther low­ered by the DA mem­bers con­stant­ly ap­proach­ing him in the cor­ri­dors be­tween class­es, ask­ing hope­ful­ly if there would be a meet­ing that night.

Til let you know in the usu­al way when the next one is,' Har­ry said over and over again, 'but I can't do it tonight, I've got to go to - er - re­me­di­al Po­tions.'

'You take re­me­di­al Po­tions!' asked Zacharias Smith su­per­cil­ious­ly, hav­ing cor­nered Har­ry in the En­trance Hall af­ter lunch. 'Good Lord, you must be ter­ri­ble. Snape doesn't usu­al­ly give ex­tra lessons, does he?'

As Smith strode away in an an­noy­ing­ly buoy­ant fash­ion, Ron glared af­ter him.

'Shall I jinx him? I can still get him from here,' he said, rais­ing his wand and tak­ing aim be­tween Smith's shoul­der blades.

'For­get it,' said Har­ry dis­mal­ly. 'It's what ev­ery­one's go­ing to think, isn't it? That I'm re­al­ly stup—'

'Hi, Har­ry,' said a voice be­hind him. He turned round and found Cho stand­ing there.

'Oh,' said Har­ry as his stom­ach leapt un­com­fort­ably. 'Hi.'

'We'll be in the li­brary, Har­ry,' said Hermione firm­ly as she seized Ron above the el­bow and dragged him off to­wards the mar­ble stair­case.

'Had a good Christ­mas?' asked Cho.

'Yeah, not bad,' said Har­ry.

'Mine was pret­ty qui­et,' said Cho. For some rea­son, she was look­ing rather em­bar­rassed. 'Erm… there's an­oth­er Hogsmeade trip next month, did you see the no­tice?'

'What? Oh, no, I haven't checked the no­tice­board since I got back.'

'Yes, it's on Valen­tine's Day…'

'Right,' said Har­ry, won­der­ing why she was telling him this. 'Well, I sup­pose you want to -?'

'On­ly if you do,' she said ea­ger­ly.

Har­ry stared. He had been about to say, 'I sup­pose you want to know when the next DA meet­ing is?' but her re­sponse did not seem to fit.

'I - er —' he said.

'Oh, it's OK if you don't,' she said, look­ing mor­ti­fied. 'Don't wor­ry. I - I'll see you around.'

She walked away. Har­ry stood star­ing af­ter her, his brain work­ing fran­ti­cal­ly. Then some­thing clunked in­to place.

'Cho! Hey - CHO!'

He ran af­ter her, catch­ing her halfway up the mar­ble stair­case.

'Er - d'you want to come in­to Hogsmeade with me on Valen­tine's Day?'

'Oooh, yes!' she said, blush­ing crim­son and beam­ing at him.

'Right… well… that's set­tled then,' said Har­ry, and feel­ing that the day was not go­ing to be a com­plete loss af­ter all, he vir­tu­al­ly bounced off to the li­brary to pick -up Ron and Hermione be­fore their af­ter­noon lessons.

By six o'clock that evening, how­ev­er, even the glow of hav­ing suc­cess­ful­ly asked out Cho Chang could not light­en the omi­nous feel­ings that in­ten­si­fied with ev­ery step Har­ry took to­wards Snape's of­fice.

He paused out­side the door when he reached it, wish­ing he were al­most any­where else, then, tak­ing a deep breath, he knocked and en­tered.

The shad­owy room was lined with shelves bear­ing hun­dreds of glass jars in which slimy bits of an­imals and plants were sus­pend­ed in var­ious­ly coloured po­tions. In one cor­ner stood the cup­board full of in­gre­di­ents that Snape had once ac­cused Har­ry - not with­out rea­son - of rob­bing. Har­ry's at­ten­tion was drawn to­wards the desk, how­ev­er, where a shal­low stone basin en­graved with runes and sym­bols lay in a pool of can­dle­light. Har­ry recog­nised it at once - it was Dum­ble­dore's Pen­sieve. Won­der­ing what on earth it was do­ing there, he jumped when Snape's cold voice came out of the shad­ows.

'Shut the door be­hind you, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry did as he was told, with the hor­ri­ble feel­ing that he was im­pris­on­ing him­self. When he turned back in­to the room, Snape had moved in­to the light and was point­ing silent­ly at the chair op­po­site his desk. Har­ry sat down and so did Snape, his cold black eyes fixed un­blink­ing­ly up­on Har­ry, dis­like etched in ev­ery line of his face.

'Well, Pot­ter, you know why you are here,' he said. The Head­mas­ter has asked me to teach you Oc­clu­men­cy. I can on­ly hope that you prove more adept at it than at Po­tions.'

'Right,' said Har­ry terse­ly.

This may not be an or­di­nary class, Pot­ter,' said Snape, his eyes nar­rowed malev­olent­ly, 'but I am still your teach­er and you will there­fore call me “sir” or “Pro­fes­sor” at all times.'

'Yes… sir,' said Har­ry.

Snape con­tin­ued to sur­vey him through nar­rowed eyes for a mo­ment, then said, 'Now, Oc­clu­men­cy. As I told you back in your dear god­fa­ther's kitchen, this branch of mag­ic seals the mind against mag­ical in­tru­sion and in­flu­ence.'

'And why does Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore think I need it, sir?' said Har­ry, look­ing di­rect­ly in­to Snape's eyes and won­der­ing whether Snape would an­swer.

Snape looked back at him for a mo­ment and then said con­temp­tu­ous­ly, 'Sure­ly even you could have worked that out by now, Pot­ter? The Dark Lord is high­ly skilled at Legili­men­cy -'

'What's that? Sir?'

'It is the abil­ity to ex­tract feel­ings and mem­ories from an­oth­er per­sons mind -'

'He can read minds?' said Har­ry quick­ly, his worst fears con­firmed.

'You have no sub­tle­ty, Pot­ter,' said Snape, his dark eyes glit­ter­ing. 'You do not un­der­stand fine dis­tinc­tions. It is one of the short­com­ings that makes you such a lamentable po­tion-​mak­er.'

Snape paused for a mo­ment, ap­par­ent­ly to savour the plea­sure of in­sult­ing Har­ry, be­fore con­tin­uing.

'On­ly Mug­gles talk of “mind-​read­ing”. The mind is not a book, to be opened at will and ex­am­ined at leisure. Thoughts are not etched on the in­side of skulls, to be pe­rused by any in­vad­er. The mind is a com­plex and many-​lay­ered thing, Pot­ter - or at least, most minds are.' He smirked. 'It is true, how­ev­er, that those who have mas­tered Legili­men­cy are able, un­der cer­tain con­di­tions, to delve in­to the minds of their vic­tims and to in­ter­pret their find­ings cor­rect­ly. The Dark Lord, for in­stance, al­most al­ways knows when some­body is ly­ing to him. On­ly those skilled at Oc­clu­men­cy are able to shut down those feel­ings and mem­ories that con­tra­dict the lie, and so can ut­ter false­hoods in his pres­ence with­out de­tec­tion.'

What­ev­er Snape said, Legili­men­cy sound­ed like mind-​read­ing to Har­ry, and he didn't like the sound of it at all.

'So he could know what we're think­ing right now? Sir?'

The Dark Lord is at a con­sid­er­able dis­tance and the walls and grounds of Hog­warts are guard­ed by many an­cient spells and charms to en­sure the bod­ily and men­tal safe­ty of those who dwell with­in them,' said Snape. Time and space mat­ter in mag­ic, Pot­ter. Eye con­tact is of­ten es­sen­tial to Legili­men­cy.'

'Well then, why do I have to learn Oc­clu­men­cy?'

Snape eyed Har­ry, trac­ing his mouth with one long, thin fin­ger as he did so.

The usu­al rules do not seem to ap­ply with you, Pot­ter. The curse that failed to kill you seems to have forged some kind of con­nec­tion be­tween you and the Dark Lord. The ev­idence sug­gests that at times, when your mind is most re­laxed and vul­ner­able - when you are asleep, for in­stance - you are shar­ing the Dark Lord's thoughts and emo­tions. The Head­mas­ter thinks it in­ad­vis­able for this to con­tin­ue. He wish­es me to teach you how to close your mind to the Dark Lord.'

Har­ry's heart was pump­ing fast again. None of this added up.

'But why does Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore want to stop it?' he asked abrupt­ly. 'I don't like it much, but it's been use­ful, hasn't it? I mean… I saw that snake at­tack Mr Weasley and if I hadn't, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore wouldn't have been able to save him, would he? Sir?'

Snape stared at Har­ry for a few mo­ments, still trac­ing his mouth with his fin­ger. When he spoke again, it was slow­ly and de­lib­er­ate­ly, as though he weighed ev­ery word.

'It ap­pears that the Dark Lord has been un­aware of the con­nec­tion be­tween you and him­self un­til very re­cent­ly. Up till now it seems that you have been ex­pe­ri­enc­ing his emo­tions, and shar­ing his thoughts, with­out his be­ing any the wis­er. How­ev­er, the vi­sion you had short­ly be­fore Christ­mas -'

The one with the snake and Mr Weasley?'

'Do not in­ter­rupt me, Pot­ter,' said Snape in a dan­ger­ous voice. 'As I was say­ing, the vi­sion you had short­ly be­fore Christ­mas rep­re­sent­ed such a pow­er­ful in­cur­sion up­on the Dark Lord's thoughts -'

'I saw in­side the snake's head, not his!'

'1 thought I just told you not to in­ter­rupt me, Pot­ter?'

But Har­ry did not care if Snape was an­gry; at last he seemed to be get­ting to the bot­tom of this busi­ness; he had moved for­wards in his chair so that, with­out re­al­is­ing it, he was perched on the very edge, tense as though poised for flight.

'How come I saw through the snakes eyes if it's Volde­mort's thoughts I'm shar­ing?'

'Do not say the Dark Lord's name!' spat Snape.

There was a nasty si­lence. They glared at each oth­er across the Pen­sieve.

'Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore says his name,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

'Dum­ble­dore is an ex­treme­ly pow­er­ful wiz­ard,' Snape mut­tered. 'While he may feel se­cure enough to use the name… the rest of us…' He rubbed his left fore­arm, ap­par­ent­ly un­con­scious­ly, on the spot where Har­ry knew the Dark Mark was burned in­to his skin.

'I just want­ed to know,' Har­ry be­gan again, forc­ing his voice back to po­lite­ness, 'why -'

'You seem to have vis­it­ed the snake's mind be­cause that was where the Dark Lord was at that par­tic­ular mo­ment,' snarled Snape. 'He was pos­sess­ing the snake at the time and so you dreamed you were in­side it, too.'

'And Vol— he - re­alised I was there?'

'It seems so,' said Snape cool­ly.

'How do you know?' said Har­ry ur­gent­ly. 'Is this just Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore guess­ing, or -?'

'I told you,' said Snape, rigid in his chair, his eyes slits, 'to call me “sir”.'

'Yes, sir,' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, 'but how do you know -?'

'It is enough that we know,' said Snape re­pres­sive­ly. The im­por­tant point is that the Dark Lord is now aware that you are gain­ing ac­cess to his thoughts and feel­ings. He has al­so de­duced that the pro­cess is like­ly to work in re­verse; that is to say, he has re­alised that he might be able to ac­cess your thoughts and feel­ings in re­turn -'

'And he might try and make me do things?' asked Har­ry. 'Sir?' he added hur­ried­ly.

'He might,' said Snape, sound­ing cold and un­con­cerned. 'Which brings us back to Oc­clu­men­cy.'

Snape pulled out his wand from an in­side pock­et of his robes and Har­ry tensed in his chair, but Snape mere­ly raised the wand to his tem­ple and placed its tip in­to the greasy roots of his hair. When he with­drew it, some sil­very sub­stance came away, stretch­ing from tem­ple to wand like a thick gos­samer strand, which broke as he pulled the wand away from it and fell grace­ful­ly in­to the Pen­sieve, where it swirled sil­very-​white, nei­ther gas nor liq­uid. Twice more, Snape raised the wand to his tem­ple and de­posit­ed the sil­very sub­stance in­to the stone basin, then, with­out of­fer­ing any ex­pla­na­tion of his be­haviour, he picked up the Pen­sieve care­ful­ly, re­moved it to a shelf out of their way and re­turned to face Har­ry with his wand held at the ready.

'Stand up and take out your wand, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry got to his feet, feel­ing ner­vous. They faced each oth­er with the desk be­tween them.

'You may use your wand to at­tempt to dis­arm me, or de­fend your­self in any oth­er way you can think of,' said Snape.

'And what are you go­ing to do?' Har­ry asked, eye­ing Snape's wand ap­pre­hen­sive­ly.

'I am about to at­tempt to break in­to your mind,' said Snape soft­ly. 'We are go­ing to see how well you re­sist. I have been told that you have al­ready shown ap­ti­tude at re­sist­ing the Im­perius Curse. You will find that sim­ilar pow­ers are need­ed for this… brace your­self, now. Legili­mens!'

Snape had struck be­fore Har­ry was ready, be­fore he had even be­gun to sum­mon any force of re­sis­tance. The of­fice swam in front of his eyes and van­ished; im­age af­ter im­age was rac­ing through his mind like a flick­er­ing film so vivid it blind­ed him to his sur­round­ings.

He was five, watch­ing Dud­ley rid­ing a new red bi­cy­cle, and his heart was burst­ing with jeal­ousy… he was nine, and Rip­per the bull­dog was chas­ing him up a tree and the Durs­leys were laugh­ing be­low on the lawn… he was sit­ting un­der the Sort­ing Hat, and it was telling him he would do well in Slytherin… Hermione was ly­ing in the hos­pi­tal wing, her face cov­ered with thick black hair… a hun­dred De­men­tors were clos­ing in on him be­side the dark lake… Cho Chang was draw­ing near­er to him un­der the mistle­toe…

No, said a voice in­side Har­ry's head, as the mem­ory of Cho drew near­er, you're not watch­ing that, you're not watch­ing it, it's pri­vate -

He felt a sharp pain in his knee. Snape's of­fice had come back in­to view and he re­alised that he had fall­en to the floor; one of his knees had col­lid­ed painful­ly with the leg of Snape's desk. He looked up at Snape, who had low­ered his wand and was rub­bing his wrist. There was an an­gry weal there, like a scorch mark.

'Did you mean to pro­duce a Sting­ing Hex?' asked Snape cool­ly.

'No,' said Har­ry bit­ter­ly, get­ting up from the floor.

'I thought not,' said Snape, watch­ing him close­ly. 'You let me get in too far. You lost con­trol.'

'Did you see ev­ery­thing I saw?' Har­ry asked, un­sure whether he want­ed to hear the an­swer.

'Flash­es of it,' said Snape, his lip curl­ing. To whom did the dog be­long?'

'My Aunt Marge,' Har­ry mut­tered, hat­ing Snape.

'Well, for a first at­tempt that was not as poor as it might have been,' said Snape, rais­ing his wand once more. 'You man­aged to stop me even­tu­al­ly, though you wast­ed time and en­er­gy shout­ing. You must re­main fo­cused. Re­pel me with your brain and you will not need to re­sort to your wand.'

'I'm try­ing,' said Har­ry an­gri­ly, 'but you're not telling me how!'

'Man­ners, Pot­ter,' said Snape dan­ger­ous­ly. 'Now, I want you to close your eyes.'

Har­ry threw him a filthy look be­fore do­ing as he was told. He did not like the idea of stand­ing there with his eyes shut while Snape faced him, car­ry­ing a wand.

'Clear your mind, Pot­ter,' said Snape's cold voice. 'Let go of all emo­tion…"

But Har­ry's anger at Snape con­tin­ued to pound through his veins like ven­om. Let go of his anger? He could as eas­ily de­tach his legs…

'You're not do­ing it, Pot­ter… you will need more dis­ci­pline than this… fo­cus, now…"

Har­ry tried to emp­ty his mind, tried not to think, or re­mem­ber, or feel…

'Let's go again… on the count of three… one - two - three -Legili­mens!'

A great black drag­on was rear­ing in front of him… his fa­ther and moth­er were wav­ing at him out of an en­chant­ed mir­ror… Cedric Dig­gory was ly­ing on the ground with blank eyes star­ing at him…

'NOOOOOOO!'

Har­ry was on his knees again, his face buried in his hands, his brain aching as though some­one had been try­ing to pull it from his skull.

'Get up!' said Snape sharply. 'Get up! You are not try­ing, you are mak­ing no ef­fort. You are al­low­ing me ac­cess to mem­ories you fear, hand­ing me weapons!'

Har­ry stood up again, his heart thump­ing wild­ly as though he had re­al­lyjust seen Cedric dead in the grave­yard. Snape looked paler than usu­al, and an­gri­er, though not near­ly as an­gry as Har­ry was.

'I - am - mak­ing - an - ef­fort,' he said through clenched teeth.

'I told you to emp­ty your­self of emo­tion!'

'Yeah? Well, I'm find­ing that hard at the mo­ment,' Har­ry snarled.

Then you will find your­self easy prey for the Dark Lord!' said Snape sav­age­ly. 'Fools who wear their hearts proud­ly on their sleeves, who can­not con­trol their emo­tions, who wal­low in sad mem­ories and al­low them­selves to be pro­voked so eas­ily - weak peo­ple, in oth­er words - they stand no chance against his pow­ers! He will pen­etrate your mind with ab­surd ease, Pot­ter!'

'I am not weak,' said Har­ry in a low voice, fury now pump­ing through him so that he thought he might at­tack Snape in a mo­ment.

Then prove it! Mas­ter your­self!' spat Snape. 'Con­trol your anger, dis­ci­pline your mind! We shall try again! Get ready, now! Legüi­mens!'

He was watch­ing Un­cle Ver­non ham­mer­ing the let­ter­box shut… a hun­dred De­men­tors were drift­ing across the lake in the grounds to­wards him… he was run­ning along a win­dow­less pas­sage with Mr Weasley… they were draw­ing near­er to the plain black door at the end of the cor­ri­dor… Har­ry ex­pect­ed to go through it… but Mr Weasley led him off to the left, down a flight of stone steps…

'I KNOW! I KNOW!'

He was on all fours again on Snape's of­fice floor, his scar was prick­ling un­pleas­ant­ly, but the voice that had just is­sued from his mouth was tri­umphant. He pushed him­self up again to find Snape star­ing at him, his wand raised. It looked as though, this time, Snape had lift­ed the spell be­fore Har­ry had even tried to fight back.

'What hap­pened then, Pot­ter?' he asked, eye­ing Har­ry in­tent­ly.

'I saw - I re­mem­bered,' Har­ry pant­ed. 'I've just re­alised…'

'Re­alised what?' asked Snape sharply.

Har­ry did not an­swer at once; he was still savour­ing the mo­ment of blind­ing re­al­isa­tion as he rubbed his fore­head…

He had been dream­ing about a win­dow­less cor­ri­dor end­ing in a locked door for months, with­out once re­al­is­ing that it was a re­al place. Now, see­ing the mem­ory again, he knew that all along he had been dream­ing about the cor­ri­dor down which he had run with Mr Weasley on the twelfth of Au­gust as they hur­ried to the court­rooms in the Min­istry; it was the cor­ri­dor lead­ing to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies and Mr Weasley had been there the night that he had been at­tacked by Volde­mort's snake.

He looked up at Snape.

'What's in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?'

'What did you say?' Snape asked qui­et­ly and Har­ry saw, with deep sat­is­fac­tion, that Snape was un­nerved.

'1 said, what's in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, sir?' Har­ry said.

'And why,' said Snape slow­ly, 'would you ask such a thing?'

'Be­cause,' said Har­ry, watch­ing Snape's face close­ly, 'that cor­ri­dor

I've just seen - I've been dream­ing about it for months — I've just recog­nised it - it leads to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies… and I think Volde­mort wants some­thing from —'

'I have told you not to say the Dark Lord's name!'

They glared at each oth­er. Har­rys scar seared again, but he did not care. Snape looked ag­itat­ed; but when he spoke again he sound­ed as though he was try­ing to ap­pear cool and un­con­cerned.

There are many things in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, Pot­ter, few of which you would un­der­stand and none of which con­cern you. Do I make my­self plain?'

'Yes,' Har­ry said, still rub­bing his prick­ling scar, which was be­com­ing more painful.

'I want you back here same time on Wednes­day. We will con­tin­ue work then.'

Tine,' said Har­ry. He was des­per­ate to get out of Snape's of­fice and find Ron and Hermione.

'You are to rid your mind of all emo­tion ev­ery night be­fore sleep; emp­ty it, make it blank and calm, you un­der­stand?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry, who was bare­ly lis­ten­ing.

'And be warned, Pot­ter… I shall know if you have not prac­tised

'Right,' Har­ry mum­bled. He picked up his school­bag, swung it over his shoul­der and hur­ried to­wards the of­fice door. As he opened it, he glanced back at Snape, who had his back to Har­ry and was scoop­ing his own thoughts out of the Pen­sieve with the tip of his wand and re­plac­ing them care­ful­ly in­side his own head. Har­ry left with­out an­oth­er word, clos­ing the door care­ful­ly be­hind him, his scar still throb­bing painful­ly.

Har­ry found Ron and Hermione in the li­brary, where they were work­ing on Um­bridge's most re­cent ream of home­work. Oth­er stu­dents, near­ly all of them fifth-​years, sat at lamp-​lit ta­bles near­by, noses close to books, quills scratch­ing fever­ish­ly, while the sky out­side the mul­honed win­dows grew steadi­ly black­er. The on­ly oth­er sound was the slight squeak­ing of one of Madam Pince's shoes, as the li­brar­ian prowled the aisles men­ac­ing­ly, breath­ing down the necks of those touch­ing her pre­cious books.

Har­ry felt shiv­ery; his scar was still aching, he felt al­most fever­ish.

When he sat down op­po­site Ron and Hermione, he caught sight of him­self in the win­dow op­po­site; he was very white and his scar seemed to be show­ing up more clear­ly than usu­al.

'How did it go?' Hermione whis­pered, and then, look­ing con­cerned. 'Are you all right, Har­ry?'

'Yeah… fine… I dun­no,' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, winc­ing as pain shot through his scar again. 'Lis­ten… I've just re­alised some­thing

And he told them what he had just seen and de­duced.

'So… so are you say­ing…' whis­pered Ron, as Madam Pince swept past, squeak­ing slight­ly, 'that the weapon - the thing You-​Know-​Who's af­ter — is in the Min­istry of Mag­ic?'

'In the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, it's got to be,' Har­ry whis­pered. 'I saw that door when your dad took me down to the court­rooms for my hear­ing and it's def­inite­ly the same one he was guard­ing when the snake bit him.'

Hermione let out a long, slow sigh.

'Of course,' she breathed.

'Of course what?' said Ron rather im­pa­tient­ly.

'Ron, think about it… Stur­gis Pod­more was try­ing to get through a door at the Min­istry of Mag­ic… it must have been that one, it's too much of a co­in­ci­dence!'

'How come Stur­gis was try­ing to break in when he's on our side?' said Ron.

'Well, I don't know,' Hermione ad­mit­ted. That is a bit odd…'

'So what's in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?' Har­ry asked Ron. 'Has your dad ev­er men­tioned any­thing about it?'

'I know they call the peo­ple who work in there “Un­speak­ables”,' said Ron, frown­ing. 'Be­cause no one re­al­ly seems to know what they do - weird place to have a weapon.'

'It's not weird at all, it makes per­fect sense,' said Hermione. 'It will be some­thing top se­cret that the Min­istry has been de­vel­op­ing, I ex­pect… Har­ry, are you sure you're all right?'

For Har­ry had just run both his hands hard over his fore­head as though try­ing to iron it.

'Yeah… fine…" he said, low­er­ing his hands, which were trem­bling. 'I just feel a bit… I don't like Oc­clu­men­cy much.'

'I ex­pect any­one would feel shaky if they'd had their mind at­tacked over and over again,' said Hermione sym­pa­thet­ical­ly. 'Look, let's get back to the com­mon room, we'll be a bit more com­fort­able there.'

But the com­mon room was packed and full of shrieks of laugh­ter and ex­cite­ment; Fred and George were demon­strat­ing their lat­est bit of joke shop mer­chan­dise.

'Head­less Hats!' shout­ed George, as Fred waved a point­ed hat dec­orat­ed with a fluffy pink feath­er at the watch­ing stu­dents. Two Galleons each, watch Fred, now!'

Fred swept the hat on to his head, beam­ing. For a sec­ond he mere­ly looked rather stupid; then both hat and head van­ished.

Sev­er­al girls screamed, but ev­ery­one else was roar­ing with laugh­ter.

'And off again!' shout­ed George, and Fred's hand groped for a mo­ment in what seemed to be thin air over his shoul­der; then his head reap­peared as he swept the pink-​feath­ered hat from it.

'How do those hats work, then?' said Hermione, dis­tract­ed from her home­work and watch­ing Fred and George close­ly. 'I mean, ob­vi­ous­ly it's some kind of In­vis­ibil­ity Spell, but it's rather clever to have ex­tend­ed the field of in­vis­ibil­ity be­yond the bound­aries of the charmed ob­ject… I'd imag­ine the charm wouldn't have a very long life though.'

Har­ry did not an­swer; he was feel­ing ill.

'I'm go­ing to have to do this to­mor­row,' he mut­tered, push­ing the books he had just tak­en out of his bag back in­side it.

'Well, write it in your home­work plan­ner then!' said Hermione en­cour­ag­ing­ly. 'So you don't for­get!'

Har­ry and Ron ex­changed looks as he reached in­to his bag, with­drew the plan­ner and opened it ten­ta­tive­ly.

'Don't leave it till lat­er, you big sec­ond-​rater!' chid­ed the book as Har­ry scrib­bled down Um­bridge's home­work. Hermione beamed at it.

'I think I'll go to bed,' said Har­ry, stuff­ing the home­work plan­ner back in­to his bag and mak­ing a men­tal note to drop it in the fire the first op­por­tu­ni­ty he got.

He walked across the com­mon room, dodg­ing George, who tried to put a Head­less Hat on him, and reached the peace and cool of the stone stair­case to the boys' dor­mi­to­ries. He was feel­ing sick again, just as he had the night he had had the vi­sion of the snake, but thought that if he could just lie down for a while he would be all right.

He opened the door of his dor­mi­to­ry and was one step in­side it when he ex­pe­ri­enced pain so se­vere he thought that some­one must have sliced in­to the top of his head. He did not know where he was, whether he was stand­ing or ly­ing down, he did not even know his own name.

Ma­ni­acal laugh­ter was ring­ing in his ears… he was hap­pi­er than he had been in a very long time… ju­bi­lant, ec­stat­ic, tri­umphant… a won­der­ful, won­der­ful thing had hap­pened…

'Har­ry? HAR­RY!'

Some­one had hit him around the face. The in­sane laugh­ter was punc­tu­at­ed with a cry of pain. The hap­pi­ness was drain­ing out of him, but the laugh­ter con­tin­ued…

He opened his eyes and, as he did so, he be­came aware that the wild laugh­ter was com­ing out of his own mouth. The mo­ment he re­alised this, it died away; Har­ry lay pant­ing on the floor, star­ing up at the ceil­ing, the scar on his fore­head throb­bing hor­ri­bly. Ron was bend­ing over him, look­ing very wor­ried.

'What hap­pened?' he said.

'I… dun­no…' Har­ry gasped, sit­ting up again. 'He's re­al­ly hap­py… re­al­ly hap­py…"

'You-​Know-​Who is?'

'Some­thing good's hap­pened,' mum­bled Har­ry. He was shak­ing as bad­ly as he had done af­ter see­ing the snake at­tack Mr Weasley and felt very sick. 'Some­thing he's been hop­ing for.'

The words came, just as they had back in the Gryffind­or chang­ing room, as though a stranger was speak­ing them through Har­ry's mouth, yet he knew they were true. He took deep breaths, will­ing him­self not to vom­it all over Ron. He was very glad that Dean and Sea­mus were not here to watch this time.

'Hermione told me to come and check on you,' said Ron in a low voice, help­ing Har­ry to his feet. 'She says your de­fences will be low at the mo­ment, af­ter Snape's been fid­dling around with your mind… still, I sup­pose it'll help in the long run, won't it?' He looked doubt­ful­ly at Har­ry as he helped him to­wards his bed. Har­ry nod­ded with­out any con­vic­tion and slumped back on his pil­lows, aching all over from hav­ing fall­en to the floor so of­ten that evening, his scar still prick­ling painful­ly. He could not help feel­ing that his first for­ay in­to Oc­clu­men­cy had weak­ened his mind's re­sis­tance rather than strength­en­ing it, and he won­dered, with a feel­ing of great trep­ida­tion, what had hap­pened to make Lord Volde­mort the hap­pi­est he had been in four­teen years.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 25 - The Beetle at Bay


Har­ry's ques­tion was an­swered the very next morn­ing. When Hermione's Dai­ly Prophet ar­rived she smoothed it out, gazed for a mo­ment at the front page and gave a yelp that caused ev­ery­one in the vicin­ity to stare at her.

'What?' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

For an­swer she spread the news­pa­per on the ta­ble in front of them and point­ed at ten black-​and-​white pho­tographs that filled the whole of the front page, nine show­ing wiz­ards' faces and the tenth, a witch's. Some of the peo­ple in the pho­tographs were silent­ly jeer­ing; oth­ers were tap­ping their fin­gers on the frame of their pic­tures, look­ing in­so­lent. Each pic­ture was cap­tioned with a name and the crime for which the per­son had been sent to Azk­aban.

An­tonin Dolo­hov, read the leg­end be­neath a wiz­ard with a long, pale, twist­ed face who was sneer­ing up at Har­ry, con­vict­ed of the bru­tal mur­ders of Gideon and Fabi­an Prewett.

Al­ger­non Rook­wood, said the cap­tion be­neath a pock­marked man with greasy hair who was lean­ing against the edge of his pic­ture, look­ing bored, con­vict­ed of leak­ing Min­istry of Mag­ic se­crets to He Who Must Not Be Named.

But Har­ry's eyes were drawn to the pic­ture of the witch. Her face had leapt out at him the mo­ment he had seen the page. She had long, dark hair that looked un­kempt and strag­gly in the pic­ture, though he had seen it sleek, thick and shin­ing. She glared up at him through heav­ily lid­ded eyes, an ar­ro­gant, dis­dain­ful smile play­ing around her thin mouth. Like Sir­ius, she re­tained ves­tiges of great good looks, but some­thing - per­haps Azk­aban - had tak­en most of her beau­ty.

Bel­la­trix Lestrange, con­vict­ed of the tor­ture and per­ma­nent in­ca-​pac­ita­tion of Frank and Al­ice Long­bot­tom.

Hermione nudged Har­ry and point­ed at the head­line over the pic­tures, which Har­ry, con­cen­trat­ing on Bel­la­trix, had not yet read.

MASS BREAK­OUT FROM AZK­ABAN

MIN­ISTRY FEARS BLACK IS 'RAL­LY­ING POINT'

FOR OLD DEATH EATERS

'Black?' said Har­ry loud­ly. 'Not -?'

'Shhh!' whis­pered Hermione des­per­ate­ly. 'Not so loud - just read it!'

The Min­istry of Mag­ic an­nounced late last night that there has been a mass break­out from Azk­aban.

Speak­ing to re­porters in his pri­vate of­fice, Cor­nelius Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, con­firmed that ten high-​se­cu­ri­ty pris­on­ers es­caped in the ear­ly hours of yes­ter­day evening and that he has al­ready in­formed the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter of the dan­ger­ous na­ture of these in­di­vid­uals.

'We find our­selves, most un­for­tu­nate­ly, in the same po­si­tion we were two and a half years ago when the mur­der­er Si­nus Black es­caped,' said Fudge last night. 'Nor do we think the two break­outs are un­re­lat­ed. An es­cape of this mag­ni­tude sug­gests out­side help, and we must re­mem­ber that Black, as the first per­son ev­er to break out of Azk­aban, would be ide­al­ly placed to help oth­ers fol­low in his foot­steps. We think it like­ly that these in­di­vid­uals, who in­clude Black's cousin, Bel­la­trix Lestrange, have ral­lied around Black as their lead­er. We are, how­ev­er, do­ing all we can to round up the crim­inals, and we beg the mag­ical com­mu­ni­ty to re­main alert and cau­tious. On no ac­count should any of these in­di­vid­uals be ap­proached.'

There you are, Har­ry,' said Ron, look­ing awestruck. That's why he was hap­py last night.'

'I don't be­lieve this,' snarled Har­ry, 'Fudge is blam­ing the break­out on Si­nus?'

'What oth­er op­tions does he have?' said Hermione bit­ter­ly. 'He can hard­ly say, “Sor­ry, ev­ery­one, Dum­ble­dore warned me this might hap­pen, the Azk­aban guards have joined Lord Volde­mort” - stop whim­per­ing, Ron - “and now Volde­mort's worst sup­port­ers have bro­ken out, too.” I mean, he's spent a good six months telling ev­ery­one you and Dum­ble­dore are liars, hasn't he?'

Hermione ripped open the news­pa­per and be­gan to read the re­port in­side while Har­ry looked around the Great Hall. He could not un­der­stand why his fel­low stu­dents were not look­ing scared or at least dis­cussing the ter­ri­ble piece of news on the front page, but very few of them took the news­pa­per ev­ery day like Hermione. There they all were, talk­ing about home­work and Quid­ditch and who knew what oth­er rub­bish, when out­side these walls ten more Death Eaters had swollen Volde­mort's ranks.

He glanced up at the staff ta­ble. It was a dif­fer­ent sto­ry there: Dum­ble­dore and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall were deep in con­ver­sa­tion, both look­ing ex­treme­ly grave. Pro­fes­sor Sprout had the Prophet propped against a bot­tle of ketchup and was read­ing the front page with such con­cen­tra­tion that she was not notic­ing the gen­tle drip of egg yolk falling in­to her lap from her sta­tion­ary spoon. Mean­while, at the far end of the ta­ble, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was tuck­ing in­to a bowl of por­ridge. For once her pouchy toad's eyes were not sweep­ing the Great Hall look­ing for mis­be­hav­ing stu­dents. She scowled as she gulped down her food and ev­ery now and then she shot a malev­olent glance up the ta­ble to where Dum­ble­dore and McG­ona­gall were talk­ing so in­tent­ly.

'Oh my -' said Hermione won­der­ing­ly, still star­ing at the news­pa­per.

'What now?' said Har­ry quick­ly; he was feel­ing jumpy.

'It's… hor­ri­ble,' said Hermione, look­ing shak­en. She fold­ed back page ten of the news­pa­per and hand­ed it to Har­ry and Ron.

TRAG­IC DEMISE OF MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC WORK­ER St Mun­go's Hos­pi­tal promised a full in­quiry last night af­ter Min­istry of Mag­ic work­er Brod­er­ick Bode, 49, was dis­cov­ered dead in his . bed, stran­gled by a pot plant. Heal­ers called to the scene were un­able to re­vive Mr Bode, who had been in­jured in a work­place ac­ci­dent some weeks pri­or to his death.

Heal­er Miri­am Strout, who was in charge of Mr Bodes ward at the time of the in­ci­dent, has been sus­pend­ed on full pay and was un­avail­able for com­ment yes­ter­day, but a spokeswiz­ard for the hos­pi­tal said in a state­ment:

'St Mun­go's deeply re­grets the death of Mr Bode, whose health was im­prov­ing steadi­ly pri­or to this trag­ic ac­ci­dent.

'We have strict guide­lines on the dec­ora­tions per­mit­ted on our wards but it ap­pears that Heal­er Strout, busy over the Christ­mas pe­ri­od, over­looked the dan­gers of the plant on Mr Bode's bed­side ta­ble. As his speech and mo­bil­ity im­proved, Heal­er Strout en­cour­aged Mr Bode to look af­ter the plant him­self, un­aware that it was not an in­no­cent Flit­terbloom, but a cut­ting of Dev­il's Snare which, when touched by the con­va­les­cent Mr Bode, throt­tled him in­stant­ly.

'St Mun­go's is as yet un­able to ac­count for the pres­ence of the plant on the ward and asks any witch or wiz­ard with in­for­ma­tion to come for­ward.'

'Bode…' said Ron. 'Bode. It rings a bell…'

'We saw him,' Hermione whis­pered. 'In St Mun­go's, re­mem­ber? He was in the bed op­po­site Lock­hart's, just ly­ing there, star­ing at the ceil­ing. And we saw the Dev­il's Snare ar­rive. She - the Heal­er - said it was a Christ­mas present.'

Har­ry looked back at the sto­ry. A feel­ing of hor­ror was ris­ing like bile in his throat.

'How come we didn't recog­nise Dev­ils Snare? We've seen it be­fore… we could've stopped this from hap­pen­ing.'

'Who ex­pects Dev­ils Snare to turn up in a hos­pi­tal dis­guised as a pot plant?' said Ron sharply. 'It's not our fault, who­ev­er sent it to the bloke is to blame! They must be a re­al prat, why didn't they check what they were buy­ing?'

'Oh, come on, Ron!' said Hermione shak­ily. 'I don't think any­one could put Dev­ils Snare in a pot and not re­alise it tries to kill who­ev­er touch­es it? This - this was mur­der… a clever mur­der, as well… if the plant was sent anony­mous­ly, how's any­one ev­er go­ing to find out who did it?'

Har­ry was not think­ing about Dev­il's Snare. He was re­mem­ber­ing tak­ing the lift down to the ninth lev­el of the Min­istry on the day of his hear­ing and the sal­low-​faced man who had got in on the. Atri­um lev­el. •»

'I met Bode,' he said slow­ly. 'I saw him at the Min­istry with your= dad.' :•

Rons mouth fell open.

'I've heard Dad talk about him at home! He was an Un­speak­able

- he worked in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies!'

They looked at each oth­er for a mo­ment, then Hermione pulled the news­pa­per back to­wards her, closed it, glared for a mo­ment at the pic­tures of the ten es­caped Death Eaters on the front, then leapt to her feet.

'Where are you go­ing?' said Ron, star­tled.

To send a let­ter,' said Hermione, swing­ing her bag on to her shoul­der. 'It… well, I don't know whether… but it's worth try­ing… and I'm the on­ly one who can.'

'I hate it when she does that,' grum­bled Ron, as he and Har­ry got up from the ta­ble and made their own, slow­er way out of the Great Hall. 'Would it kill her to tell us what she's up to for once? It'd take her about ten more sec­onds - hey, Ha­grid!'

Ha­grid was stand­ing be­side the doors in­to the En­trance Hall, wait­ing for a crowd of Raven­claws to pass. He was still as heav­ily bruised as he had been on the day he had come back from his mis­sion to the gi­ants and there was a new cut right across the bridge of his nose.

'All righ', you two?' he said, try­ing to muster a smile but man­ag­ing on­ly a kind of pained gri­mace.

'Are you OK, Ha­grid?' asked Har­ry, fol­low­ing him as he lum­bered af­ter the Raven­claws.

'Fine, fine,' said Ha­grid with a fee­ble as­sump­tion of airi­ness; he waved a hand and nar­row­ly missed con­cussing a fright­ened-​look­ing Pro­fes­sor Vec­tor, who was pass­ing. 'Jus' busy, yeh know, usu­al stuff

- lessons ter pre­pare - cou­ple o' sala­man­ders got scale rot - an' I'm on pro­ba­tion,' he mum­bled.

'You're on pro­ba­tion?' said Ron very loud­ly, so that many of the pass­ing stu­dents looked around cu­ri­ous­ly. 'Sor­ry - I mean - you're on pro­ba­tion?' he whis­pered.

'Yeah,' said Ha­grid. "S'no more'n I ex­pect­ed, ter tell yeh the truth. Yeh migh' not've picked up on it, bu' that in­spec­tion didn' go too well, yeh know… any­way,' he sighed deeply. 'Bes' go an' rub a bit more chilli pow­der on them sala­man­ders or their tails'll be hangin' off 'em next. See yeh, Har­ry… Ron…'

He trudged away, out of the front doors and down the stone steps in­to the damp grounds. Har­ry watched him go, won­der­ing how much more bad news he could stand.

*

The fact that Ha­grid was now on pro­ba­tion be­came com­mon knowl­edge with­in the school over the next few days, but to Har­ry's in­dig­na­tion, hard­ly any­body ap­peared to be up­set about it; in­deed, some peo­ple, Dra­co Mal­foy promi­nent among them, seemed pos­itive­ly glee­ful. As for the freak­ish death of an ob­scure De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies em­ploy­ee in St Mun­go's, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione seemed to be the on­ly peo­ple who knew or cared. There was on­ly one top­ic of con­ver­sa­tion in the cor­ri­dors now: the ten es­caped Death Eaters, whose sto­ry had fi­nal­ly fil­tered through the school from those few peo­ple who read the news­pa­pers. Ru­mours were fly­ing that some of the con­victs had been spot­ted in Hogsmeade, that they were sup­posed to be hid­ing out in the Shriek­ing Shack and that they were go­ing to break in­to Hog­warts, just as Sir­ius Black had once done.

Those who came from wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies had grown up hear­ing the names of these Death Eaters spo­ken with al­most as much fear as Volde­mor­ts; the crimes they had com­mit­ted dur­ing the days of Volde­mort's reign of ter­ror were leg­endary. There were rel­atives of their vic­tims among the Hog­warts stu­dents, who now found them­selves the un­will­ing ob­jects of a grue­some sort of re­flect­ed fame as they walked the cor­ri­dors: Su­san Bones, whose un­cle, aunt and cousins had all died at the hands of one of the ten, said mis­er­ably dur­ing Her­bol­ogy that she now had a good idea what it felt like to be Har­ry.

'And I don't know how you stand it - it's hor­ri­ble,' she said blunt­ly, dump­ing far too much drag­on ma­nure on her tray of Screech­snap seedlings, caus­ing them to wrig­gle and squeak in dis­com­fort.

It was true that Har­ry was the sub­ject of much re­newed mut­ter­ing and point­ing in the cor­ri­dors these days, yet he thought he de­tect­ed a slight dif­fer­ence in the tone of the whis­per­ers' voic­es. They sound­ed cu­ri­ous rather than hos­tile now, and once or twice he was sure he over­heard snatch­es of con­ver­sa­tion that sug­gest­ed that the speak­ers were not sat­is­fied with the Prophets ver­sion of how and why ten Death Eaters had man­aged to break out of the Azk­aban fortress. In their con­fu­sion and fear, these doubters now seemed to be turn­ing to the on­ly oth­er ex­pla­na­tion avail­able to them: the one that Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore had been ex­pound­ing since the pre­vi­ous year.

It was not on­ly the stu­dents' mood that had changed. It was now quite com­mon to come across two or three teach­ers con­vers­ing in low, ur­gent whis­pers in the cor­ri­dors, break­ing off their con­ver­sa­tions the mo­ment they saw stu­dents ap­proach­ing.

They ob­vi­ous­ly can't talk freely in the staff room any more,' said Hermione in a low voice, as she, Har­ry and Ron passed Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Flitwick and Sprout hud­dled to­geth­er out­side the Charms class­room one day. 'Not with Um­bridge there.'

'Reck­on they know any­thing new?' said Ron, gaz­ing back over his shoul­der at the three teach­ers.

'If they do, we're not go­ing to hear about it, are we?' said Har­ry an­gri­ly. 'Not af­ter De­cree… what num­ber are we on now?' For new no­tices had ap­peared on the house no­tice­boards the morn­ing af­ter news of the Azk­aban break­out: ^

BY OR­DER OF THE HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR OF HOG­WARTS ^

Teach­ers are here­by banned from giv­ing stu­dents any in­for­ma­tion •" that is not strict­ly re­lat­ed to the sub­jects they are paid to teach.

The above is in ac­cor­dance with Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​six.

Signed: Do­lores jane Um­bridge, High In­quisi­tor

This lat­est De­cree had been the sub­ject of a great num­ber of jokes among the stu­dents. Lee Jor­dan had point­ed out to Um­bridge that by the terms of the new rule she was not al­lowed to tell Fred and George off for play­ing Ex­plod­ing Snap in the back of the class.

'Ex­plod­ing Snap's got noth­ing to do with De­fence Against the Dark Arts, Pro­fes­sor! That's not in­for­ma­tion re­lat­ing to your sub­ject!'

When Har­ry next saw Lee, the back of his hand was bleed­ing rather bad­ly. Har­ry rec­om­mend­ed essence of Murt­lap.

Har­ry had thought the break­out from Azk­aban might have hum­bled Um­bridge a lit­tle, that she might have been abashed at the catas­tro­phe that had oc­curred right un­der the nose of her beloved Fudge. It seemed, how­ev­er, to have on­ly in­ten­si­fied her fu­ri­ous de­sire to bring ev­ery as­pect of life at Hog­warts un­der her per­son­al con­trol. She seemed de­ter­mined at the very least to achieve a sack­ing be­fore long, and the on­ly ques­tion was whether it would be Pro­fes­sor Trelawney or Ha­grid who went first.

Ev­ery sin­gle Div­ina­tion and Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures les­son was now con­duct­ed in the pres­ence of Um­bridge and her clip­board. She lurked by the fire in the heav­ily per­fumed tow­er room, in­ter­rupt­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's in­creas­ing­ly hys­ter­ical talks with dif­fi­cult ques­tions about or­nithoman­cy and hep­to­mol­ogy, in­sist­ing that she pre­dict­ed stu­dents' an­swers be­fore they gave them and de­mand­ing that she demon­strate her skill at the crys­tal ball, the tea leaves and the rune stones in turn. Har­ry thought Pro­fes­sor Trelawney might soon crack un­der the strain. Sev­er­al times he passed her in the cor­ri­dors - in it­self a very un­usu­al oc­cur­rence as she gen­er­al­ly re­mained in her tow­er room - mut­ter­ing wild­ly to her­self, wring­ing her hands and shoot­ing ter­ri­fied glances over her shoul­der, and all the while giv­ing off a pow­er­ful smell of cook­ing sher­ry. If he had not been so wor­ried about Ha­grid, he would have felt sor­ry for her - but if one of them was to be oust­ed from their job, there could be on­ly one choice for Har­ry as to who should re­main.

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, Har­ry could not see that Ha­grid was putting up a bet­ter show than Trelawney. Though he seemed to be fol­low­ing Hermione's ad­vice and had shown them noth­ing more fright­en­ing than a Crup — a crea­ture in­dis­tin­guish­able from a Jack Rus­sell ter­ri­er ex­cept for its forked tail - since be­fore Christ­mas, he too seemed to have lost his nerve. He was odd­ly dis­tract­ed and jumpy dur­ing lessons, los­ing the thread of what he was say­ing to the class, an­swer­ing ques­tions wrong­ly, and all the time glanc­ing anx­ious­ly at Um­bridge. He was al­so more dis­tant with Har­ry, Ron and Hermione than he had ev­er been be­fore, and had ex­press­ly for­bid­den them to vis­it him af­ter dark.

'If she catch­es yeh, it'll be all of our necks on the line,' he told them flat­ly, and with no de­sire to do any­thing that might jeop­ar­dise his job fur­ther they ab­stained from walk­ing down to his hut in the evenings.

It seemed to Har­ry that Um­bridge was steadi­ly de­priv­ing him of ev­ery­thing that made his life at Hog­warts worth liv­ing: vis­its to Ha­grid's house, let­ters from Sir­ius, his Fire­bolt and Quid­ditch. He took his re­venge the on­ly way he could - by re­dou­bling his ef­forts for the DA.

Har­ry was pleased to see that all of them, even Zacharias Smith, had been spurred on to work hard­er than ev­er by the news that ten more Death Eaters were now on the loose, but in no­body was this im­prove­ment more pro­nounced than in Neville. The news of his par­ents' at­tack­ers' es­cape had wrought a strange and even slight­ly alarm­ing change in him. He had not once men­tioned his meet­ing with Har­ry, Ron and Hermione on the closed ward in St Mun­go's and, tak­ing their lead from him, they had kept qui­et about it too. Nor had he said any­thing on the sub­ject of Bel­la­trix and her fel­low tor­tur­ers' es­cape. In fact, Neville bare­ly spoke dur­ing the DA meet­ings any more, but worked re­lent­less­ly on ev­ery new jinx and counter-​curse Har­ry taught them, his plump face screwed up in con­cen­tra­tion, ap­par­ent­ly in­dif­fer­ent to in­juries or ac­ci­dents and work­ing hard­er than any­one else in the room. He was im­prov­ing so fast it was quite un­nerv­ing and when Har­ry taught them the Shield Charm - a means of de­flect­ing mi­nor jinx­es so that they re­bound­ed up­on the at­tack­er - on­ly Hermione mas­tered the charm faster than Neville.

Har­ry would have giv­en a great deal to be mak­ing as much progress at Oc­clu­men­cy as Neville was mak­ing dur­ing the DA meet­ings. Har­ry's ses­sions with Snape, which had start­ed bad­ly enough, were not im­prov­ing. On the con­trary Har­ry felt he was get­ting worse with ev­ery les­son.

Be­fore he had start­ed study­ing Oc­clu­men­cy, his scar had prick­led oc­ca­sion­al­ly, usu­al­ly dur­ing the night, or else fol­low­ing one of those strange flash­es of Volde­mort's thoughts or mood that he ex­pe­ri­enced ev­ery now and then. Nowa­days, how­ev­er, his scar hard­ly ev­er stopped prick­ling, and he of­ten felt lurch­es of an­noy­ance or cheer­ful­ness that were un­re­lat­ed to what was hap­pen­ing to him at the time, which were al­ways ac­com­pa­nied by a par­tic­ular­ly painful twinge from his scar. He had the hor­ri­ble im­pres­sion that he was slow­ly turn­ing in­to a kind of aeri­al that was tuned in to tiny fluc­tu­ations in Volde­mor­ts mood, and he was sure he could date this in­creased sen­si­tiv­ity firm­ly from his first Oc­clu­men­cy les­son with Snape. What was more, he was now dream­ing about walk­ing down the cor­ri­dor to­wards the en­trance to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies al­most ev­ery night, dreams which al­ways cul­mi­nat­ed in him stand­ing long­ing­ly in front of the plain black door.

'Maybe it's a bit like an ill­ness,' said Hermione, look­ing con­cerned when Har­ry con­fid­ed in her and Ron. 'A fever or some­thing. It has to get worse be­fore it gets bet­ter.'

The lessons with Snape are mak­ing it worse,' said Har­ry flat­ly. 'I'm get­ting sick of my scar hurt­ing and I'm get­ting bored with walk­ing down that cor­ri­dor ev­ery night.' He rubbed his fore­head an­gri­ly. 'I just wish the door would open, I'm sick of stand­ing star­ing at it -'

That's not fun­ny,' said Hermione sharply. 'Dum­ble­dore doesn't want you to have dreams about that cor­ri­dor at all, or he wouldn't have asked Snape to teach you Oc­clu­men­cy. You're just go­ing to have to work a bit hard­er in your lessons.'

'I am work­ing!' said Har­ry net­tled. 'You try it some time - Snape try­ing to get in­side your head - it's not a bun­dle of laughs, you know!'

'Maybe…' said Ron slow­ly.

'Maybe what?' said Hermione, rather snap­pish­ly.

'Maybe it's not Har­ry's fault he can't close his mind,' said Ron dark­ly.

'What do you mean?' said Hermione.

'Well, maybe Snape isn't re­al­ly try­ing to help Har­ry…'

Har­ry and Hermione stared at him. Ron looked dark­ly and mean­ing­ful­ly from one to the oth­er.

'Maybe,' he said again, in a low­er voice, 'he's ac­tu­al­ly try­ing to open Har­ry's mind a bit wider… make it eas­ier for You-​Know—'

'Shut up, Ron,' said Hermione an­gri­ly. 'How many times have you sus­pect­ed Snape, and when have you ev­er been right? Dum­ble­dore trusts him, he works for the Or­der, that ought to be enough.'

'He used to be a Death Eater,' said Ron stub­born­ly. 'And we've nev­er seen proof that he re­al­ly swapped sides.'

'Dum­ble­dore trusts him,' Hermione re­peat­ed. 'And if we can't trust Dum­ble­dore, we can't trust any­one.'

*

With so much to wor­ry about and so much to do - startling amounts of home­work that fre­quent­ly kept the fifth-​years work­ing un­til past mid­night, se­cret DA ses­sions and reg­ular class­es with Snape -Jan­uary seemed to be pass­ing alarm­ing­ly fast. Be­fore Har­ry knew it, Febru­ary had ar­rived, bring­ing with it wet­ter and warmer weath­er and the prospect of the sec­ond Hogsmeade vis­it of the year. Har­ry had had very lit­tle time to spare for con­ver­sa­tions with Cho since they had agreed to vis­it the vil­lage to­geth­er, but sud­den­ly found him­self fac­ing a Valen­tine's Day spent en­tire­ly in her com­pa­ny.

On the morn­ing of the four­teenth he dressed par­tic­ular­ly care­ful­ly. He and Ron ar­rived at break­fast just in time for the ar­rival of the post owls. Hed­wig was not there - not that Har­ry had ex­pect­ed her - but Hermione was tug­ging a let­ter from the beak of an un­fa­mil­iar brown owl as they sat down.

'And about time! If it hadn't come to­day…' she said, ea­ger­ly tear­ing open the en­ve­lope and pulling out a small piece of parch­ment. Her eyes sped from left to right as she read through the mes­sage and a grim­ly pleased ex­pres­sion spread across her face.

'Lis­ten, Har­ry,' she said, look­ing up at him, 'this is re­al­ly im­por­tant. Do you think you could meet me in the Three Broom­sticks around mid­day?'

'Well… I dun­no,' said Har­ry un­cer­tain­ly. 'Cho might be ex­pect­ing me to spend the whole day with her. We nev­er said what we were go­ing to do.'

'Well, bring her along if you must,' said Hermione ur­gent­ly. 'But will you come?'

'Well… all right, but why?'

'I haven't got time to tell you now, I've got to an­swer this quick­ly.'

And she hur­ried out of the Great Hall, the let­ter clutched in one hand and a piece of toast in the oth­er.

'Are you com­ing?' Har­ry asked Ron, but he shook his head, look­ing glum.

'I can't come in­to Hogsmeade at all; An­geli­na wants a full day's train­ing. Like it's go­ing to help; we're the worst team I've ev­er seen. You should see Slop­er and Kirke, they're pa­thet­ic, even worse than I am.' He heaved a great sigh. 'I dun­no why An­geli­na won't just let me re­sign.'

'It's be­cause you're good when you're on form, that's why,' said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly.

He found it very hard to be sym­pa­thet­ic to Ron's plight, when he him­self would have giv­en al­most any­thing to be play­ing in the forth­com­ing match against Huf­flepuff. Ron seemed to have no­ticed Har­rys tone, be­cause he did not men­tion Quid­ditch again dur­ing break­fast, and there was a slight frosti­ness in the way they said good­bye to each oth­er short­ly af­ter­wards. Ron de­part­ed for the Quid­ditch pitch and Har­ry, af­ter at­tempt­ing to flat­ten his hair while star­ing at his re­flec­tion in the back of a tea­spoon, pro­ceed­ed alone to the En­trance Hall to meet Cho, feel­ing very ap­pre­hen­sive and won­der­ing what on earth they were go­ing to talk about.

She was wait­ing for him a lit­tle to the side of the oak front doors, look­ing very pret­ty with her hair tied back in a long pony-​tail. Har­ry's feet seemed to be too big for his body as he walked to­wards her and he was sud­den­ly hor­ri­bly aware of his arms and how stupid they must look swing­ing at his sides.

'Hi,' said Cho slight­ly breath­less­ly.

'Hi,' said Har­ry.

They stared at each oth­er for a mo­ment, then Har­ry said, 'Well - er — shall we go, then?'

'Oh - yes…'

They joined the queue of peo­ple be­ing signed out by Filch, oc­ca­sion­al­ly catch­ing each oth­er's eye and grin­ning shifti­ly, but not talk­ing to each oth­er. Har­ry was re­lieved when they reached the fresh air, find­ing it eas­ier to walk along in si­lence than just stand about look­ing awk­ward. It was a fresh, breezy sort of a day and as they passed the Quid­ditch sta­di­um Har­ry glimpsed Ron and

Gin­ny skim­ming along over the stands and felt a hor­ri­ble pang that he was not up there with them.

'You re­al­ly miss it, don't you?' said Cho.

He looked round and saw her watch­ing him.

'Yeah,' sighed Har­ry. 'I do.'

'Re­mem­ber the first time we played against each oth­er, in the third year?' she asked him.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, grin­ning. 'You kept block­ing me.'

'And Wood told you not to be a gen­tle­man and knock me off my broom if you had to,' said Cho, smil­ing rem­inis­cent­ly. '1 heard he got tak­en on by Pride of Portree, is that right?'

'Nah, it was Pud­dle­mere Unit­ed; I saw him at the World Cup last year.'

'Oh, I saw you there, too, re­mem­ber? We were on the same camp­site. It was re­al­ly good, wasn't it?'

The sub­ject of the Quid­ditch World Cup car­ried them all the way down the drive and out through the gates. Har­ry could hard­ly be­lieve how easy it was to talk to her - no more dif­fi­cult, in fact, than talk­ing to Ron and Hermione - and he was just start­ing to feel con­fi­dent and cheer­ful when a large gang of Slytherin girls passed them, in­clud­ing Pan­sy Parkin­son.

'Pot­ter and Chang!' screeched Pan­sy, to a cho­rus of snide gig­gles. 'Urgh, Chang, I don't think much of your taste… at least Dig­gory was good-​look­ing!'

The girls sped up, talk­ing and shriek­ing in a point­ed fash­ion with many ex­ag­ger­at­ed glances back at Har­ry and Cho, leav­ing an em­bar­rassed si­lence in their wake. Har­ry could think of noth­ing else to say about Quid­ditch, and Cho, slight­ly flushed, was watch­ing her feet.

'So… where d'you want to go?' Har­ry asked as they en­tered Hogsmeade. The High Street was full of stu­dents am­bling up and down, peer­ing in­to the shop win­dows and mess­ing about to­geth­er on the pave­ments.

'Oh… I don't mind,' said Cho, shrug­ging. 'Urn… shall we just have a look in the shops or some­thing?'

They wan­dered to­wards Dervish and Banges. A large poster had been stuck up in the win­dow and a few Hogsmead­ers were look­ing at it. They moved aside when Har­ry and Cho ap­proached and Har­ry found him­self star­ing once more at the pic­tures of the ten es­caped Death Eaters. The poster, 'By Or­der of the Min­istry of Mag­ic', of­fered a thou­sand-​Galleon re­ward to any witch or wiz­ard with in­for­ma­tion lead­ing to the re­cap­ture of any of the con­victs pic­tured.

Tt's fun­ny, isn't it,' said Cho in a low voice, gaz­ing up at the pic­tures of the Death Eaters, 're­mem­ber when that Sir­ius Black es­caped, and there were De­men­tors all over Hogsmeade look­ing for him? And now ten Death Eaters are on the loose and there are no De­men­tors any­where…'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, tear­ing his eyes away from Bel­la­trix Lestrange's face to glance up and down the High Street. 'Yeah, that is weird.'

He wasn't sor­ry that there were no De­men­tors near­by, but now he came to think of it, their ab­sence was high­ly sig­nif­icant. They had not on­ly let the Death Eaters es­cape, they weren't both­er­ing to look for them… it looked as though they re­al­ly were out­side Min­istry con­trol now.

The ten es­caped Death Eaters were star­ing out of ev­ery shop win­dow he and Cho passed. It start­ed to rain as they passed Scriven­shaft's; cold, heavy drops of wa­ter kept hit­ting Har­ry's face and the back of his neck.

'Urn… d'you want to get a cof­fee?' said Cho ten­ta­tive­ly, as the rain be­gan to fall more heav­ily.

'Yeah, all right,' said Har­ry, look­ing around. 'Where?'

'Oh, there's a re­al­ly nice place just up here; haven't you ev­er been to Madam Pud­di­foot's?' she said bright­ly, lead­ing him up a side road and in­to a small teashop that Har­ry had nev­er no­ticed be­fore. It was a cramped, steamy lit­tle place where ev­ery­thing seemed to have been dec­orat­ed with frills or bows. Har­ry was re­mind­ed un­pleas­ant­ly of Um­bridge's of­fice.

'Cute, isn't it?' said Cho hap­pi­ly.

'Er… yeah,' said Har­ry un­truth­ful­ly.

'Look, she's dec­orat­ed it for Valen­tine's Day!' said Cho, in­di­cat­ing a num­ber of gold­en cherubs that were hov­er­ing over each of the small, cir­cu­lar ta­bles, oc­ca­sion­al­ly throw­ing pink con­fet­ti over the oc­cu­pants.

'Aaah…'

They sat down at the last re­main­ing ta­ble, which was over by the steamy win­dow. Roger Davies, the Raven­claw Quid­ditch Cap­tain,i was sit­ting about a foot and a half away with a pret­ty blonde girl. They were hold­ing hands. The sight made Har­ry feel un­com­fort-. able, par­tic­ular­ly when, look­ing around the teashop, he saw that it was full of noth­ing but cou­ples, all of them hold­ing hands. Per­haps Cho would ex­pect him to hold her hand.

'What can I get you, m'dears?' said Madam Pud­di­foot, a very stout wom­an with a shiny black bun, squeez­ing be­tween their ta­ble and Roger Davies's with great dif­fi­cul­ty. '

Two cof­fees, please,' said Cho.

In the time it took for their cof­fees to ar­rive, Roger Davies and his girl­friend had start­ed kiss­ing over their sug­ar bowl. Har­ry wished they wouldn't; he felt that Davies was set­ting a stan­dard with which Cho would soon ex­pect him to com­pete. He felt his face grow­ing hot and tried star­ing out of the win­dow, but it was so steamed up he couldn't see the street out­side. To post­pone the mo­ment when he would have to look at Cho, he stared up at the ceil­ing as though ex­am­in­ing the paint­work and re­ceived a hand­ful of con­fet­ti in the face from their hov­er­ing cherub.

Af­ter a few more painful min­utes, Cho men­tioned Um­bridge. Har­ry seized on the sub­ject with re­lief and they passed a few hap­py mo­ments abus­ing her, but the sub­ject had al­ready been so thor­ough­ly can­vassed dur­ing DA meet­ings it did not last very long. Si­lence fell again. Har­ry was very con­scious of the slurp­ing nois­es com­ing from the ta­ble next door and cast wild­ly around for some­thing else to say.

'Er… lis­ten, d'you want to come with me to the Three Broom­sticks at lunchtime? I'm meet­ing Hermione Granger there.'

Cho raised her eye­brows.

'You're meet­ing Hermione Granger? To­day?'

'Yeah. Well, she asked me to, so I thought I would. D'you want to come with me? She said it wouldn't mat­ter if you did.'

'Oh… well… that was nice of her.'

But Cho did not sound as though she thought it was nice at all. On the con­trary, her tone was cold and all of a sud­den she looked rather for­bid­ding.

A few more min­utes passed in to­tal si­lence, Har­ry drink­ing his cof­fee so fast that he would soon need a fresh cup. Be­side them,

Roger Davies and his girl­friend seemed glued to­geth­er at the lips.

Cho's hand was ly­ing on the ta­ble be­side her cof­fee and Har­ry was feel­ing a mount­ing pres­sure to take hold of it. Just do it, he told him­self, as a fount of min­gled pan­ic and ex­cite­ment surged up in­side his chest, just reach out and grab it. Amaz­ing, how much more dif­fi­cult it was to ex­tend his arm twelve inch­es and touch her hand than it was to snatch a speed­ing Snitch from midair…

But just as he moved his hand for­wards, Cho took hers off the ta­ble. She was now watch­ing Roger Davies kiss­ing his girl­friend with a mild­ly in­ter­est­ed ex­pres­sion.

'He asked me out, you know,' she said in a qui­et voice. 'A cou­ple of weeks ago. Roger. I turned him down, though.'

Har­ry, who had grabbed the sug­ar bowl to ex­cuse his sud­den lung­ing move­ment across the ta­ble, could not think why she was telling him this. If she wished she were sit­ting at the next ta­ble be­ing hearti­ly kissed by Roger Davies, why had she agreed to come out with him?

He said noth­ing. Their cherub threw an­oth­er hand­ful of con­fet­ti over them; some of it land­ed in the last cold dregs of cof­fee Har­ry had been about to drink.

'I came in here with Cedric last year,' said Cho.

In the sec­ond or so it took for him to take in what she had said, Har­ry's in­sides had be­come glacial. He could not be­lieve she want­ed to talk about Cedric now, while kiss­ing cou­ples sur­round­ed them and a cherub float­ed over their heads.

Cho's voice was rather high­er when she spoke again.

'I've been mean­ing to ask you for ages… did Cedric - did he - in - in - men­tion me at all be­fore he died?'

This was the very last sub­ject on earth Har­ry want­ed to dis­cuss, and least of all with Cho.

'Well - no -' he said qui­et­ly. There - there wasn't time for him to say any­thing. Erm… so… d'you… d'you get to see a lot of Quid­ditch in the hol­idays? You sup­port the Tor­na­dos, right?'

His voice sound­ed false­ly bright and cheery. To his hor­ror, he saw that her eyes were swim­ming with tears again, just as they had been af­ter the last DA meet­ing be­fore Christ­mas.

'Look,' he said des­per­ate­ly, lean­ing in so that no­body else could over­hear, 'let's not talk about Cedric right now… let's talk about some­thing else

But this, ap­par­ent­ly, was quite the wrong thing to say.

'I thought,' she said, tears spat­ter­ing down on to the ta­ble, 'I thought you'd u - u - un­der­stand! I need to talk about it! Sure­ly you n - need to talk about it't - too! I mean, you saw it hap­pen, d - didn't you?'

Ev­ery­thing was go­ing night­mar­ish­ly wrong; Roger Davies's girl­friend had even unglued her­self to look round at Cho cry­ing.

'Well - I have talked about it,' Har­ry said in a whis­per, 'to Ron and Hermione, but -'

'Oh, you'll talk to Hermione Granger!' she said shril­ly, her face now shin­ing with tears. Sev­er­al more kiss­ing cou­ples broke apart to stare. 'But you won't talk to me! P - per­haps it would be best if we just… just p - paid and you went and met up with Hermione G - Granger, like you ob­vi­ous­ly want to!'

Har­ry stared at her, ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered, as she seized a frilly nap­kin and dabbed at her shin­ing face with it.

'Cho?' he said weak­ly, wish­ing Roger would seize his girl­friend and start kiss­ing her again to stop her gog­gling at him and Cho.

'Go on, leave!' she said, now cry­ing in­to the nap­kin. '1 don't know why you asked me out in the first place if you're go­ing to make ar­range­ments to meet oth­er girls right af­ter me… how many are you meet­ing af­ter Hermione?'

'It's not like that!' said Har­ry, and he was so re­lieved at fi­nal­ly un­der­stand­ing what she was an­noyed about that he laughed, which he re­alised a split sec­ond too late was al­so a mis­take.

Cho sprang to her feet. The whole tea­room was qui­et and ev­ery­body was watch­ing them now.

Til see you around, Har­ry' she said dra­mat­ical­ly, and hic­cough­ing slight­ly she dashed to the door, wrenched it open and hur­ried off in­to the pour­ing rain.

'Cho!' Har­ry called af­ter her, but the door had al­ready swung shut be­hind her with a tune­ful tin­kle.

There was to­tal si­lence with­in the teashop. Ev­ery eye was on Har­ry. He threw a Galleon down on to the ta­ble, shook pink con­fet­ti out of his hair, and fol­lowed Cho out of the door.

It was rain­ing hard now and she was nowhere to be seen. He sim­ply did not un­der­stand what had hap­pened; half an hour ago they had been get­ting along fine.

'Wom­en!' he mut­tered an­gri­ly, slosh­ing down the rain-​washed street with his hands in his pock­ets. 'What did she want to talk about Cedric for, any­way? Why does she al­ways want to drag up a sub­ject that makes her act like a hu­man hosepipe?'

He turned right and broke in­to a splashy run, and with­in min­utes he was turn­ing in­to the door­way of the Three Broom­sticks. He knew he was too ear­ly to meet Hermione, but he thought it like­ly there would be some­one in here with whom he could spend the in­ter­ven­ing time. He shook his wet hair out of his eyes and looked around. Ha­grid was sit­ting alone in a cor­ner, look­ing mo­rose.

'Hi, Ha­grid!' he said, when he had squeezed through the crammed ta­bles and pulled up a chair be­side him.

Ha­grid jumped and looked down at Har­ry as though he bare­ly recog­nised him. Har­ry saw that he had two fresh cuts on his face and sev­er­al new bruis­es.

'Oh, it's yeh, Har­ry,' said Ha­grid. 'Yeh all righT

'Yeah, I'm fine,' lied Har­ry; but, next to this bat­tered and mourn­ful-​look­ing Ha­grid, he felt he didn't re­al­ly have much to com­plain about. 'Er - are you OK?'

'Me?' said Ha­grid. 'Oh yeah, I'm grand, Har­ry, grand.'

He gazed in­to the depths of his pewter tankard, which was the size of a large buck­et, and sighed. Har­ry didn't know what to say to him. They sat side by side in si­lence for a mo­ment. Then Ha­grid said abrupt­ly, 'In the same boat, yeh an' me, aren' we, 'Ar­ry?'

'Er -' said Har­ry.

'Yeah… I've said it be­fore… both out­siders, like,' said Ha­grid, nod­ding wise­ly. 'An' both or­phans. Yeah… both or­phans.'

He took a great swig from his tankard.

'Makes a diff'rence, havin' a de­cent fam­ily,' he said. 'Me dad was de­cent. An' your mum an' dad were de­cent. If they'd lived, life woul­da bin diff'rent, eh?'

'Yeah… I's'pose,' said Har­ry cau­tious­ly. Ha­grid seemed to be in a very strange mood.

'Fam­ily,' said Ha­grid gloomi­ly. 'What­ev­er yeh say, blood's im­por­tant…'

And he wiped a trick­le of it out of his eye.

'Ha­grid,' said Har­ry, un­able to stop him­self, 'where are you get­ting all these in­juries?'

'Eh?' said Ha­grid, look­ing star­tled. 'Wha' in­juries?'

'All those!' said Har­ry, point­ing at Ha­grid's face.

'Oh… tha's jus' nor­mal bumps an' bruis­es, Har­ry,' said Ha­grid dis­mis­sive­ly, '1 got a rough job.'

He drained his tankard, set it back on the ta­ble and got to his feet.

Til be seein' yeh, Har­ry… take care now.'

And he lum­bered out of the pub look­ing wretched, and dis­ap­peared in­to the tor­ren­tial rain. Har­ry watched him go, feel­ing mis­er­able. Ha­grid was un­hap­py and he was hid­ing some­thing, but he seemed de­ter­mined not to ac­cept help. What was go­ing on? But be­fore Har­ry could think about it any fur­ther, he heard a voice call­ing his name.

'Har­ry! Har­ry, over here!'

Hermione was wav­ing at him from the oth­er side of the room. He got up and made his way to­wards her through the crowd­ed pub. He was still a few ta­bles away when he re­alised that Hermione was not alone. She was sit­ting at a ta­ble with the un­like­li­est pair of drink­ing mates he could ev­er have imag­ined: Lu­na Love­good and none oth­er than Ri­ta Skeeter, ex-​jour­nal­ist on the Dai­ly Prophet and one of Hermione's least favourite peo­ple in the world.

'You're ear­ly!' said Hermione, mov­ing along to give him room to sit down. 'I thought you were with Cho, I wasn't ex­pect­ing you for an­oth­er hour at least!'

'Cho?' said Ri­ta at once, twist­ing round in her seat to stare avid­ly at Har­ry. 'A girl?'

She snatched up her crocodile-​skin hand­bag and groped with­in it.

'It's none of your busi­ness if Har­ry's been with a hun­dred girls,' Hermione told Ri­ta cool­ly. 'So you can put that away right now.'

Ri­ta had been on the point of with­draw­ing an acid-​green quill from her bag. Look­ing as though she had been forced to swal­low Stinksap, she snapped her bag shut again.

'What are you up to?' Har­ry asked, sit­ting down and star­ing from Ri­ta to Lu­na to Hermione.

'Lit­tle Miss Per­fect was just about to tell me when you ar­rived,' said Ri­ta, tak­ing a large slurp of her drink. 'I sup­pose I'm al­lowed to talk to him, am 1?' she shot at Hermione.

'Yes, I sup­pose you are,' said Hermione cold­ly.

Un­em­ploy­ment did not suit Ri­ta. The hair that had once been set in elab­orate curls now hung lank and un­kempt around her face. The scar­let paint on her two-​inch talons was chipped and there were a cou­ple of false jew­els miss­ing from her winged glass­es. She took an­oth­er great gulp of her drink and said out of the cor­ner of her mouth, 'Pret­ty girl, is she, Har­ry?'

'One more word about Har­ry's love life and the deal's off and that's a promise,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly.

'What deal?' said Ri­ta, wip­ing her mouth on the back of her hand. 'You haven't men­tioned a deal yet, Miss Pris­sy, you just told me to turn up. Oh, one of these days…" She took a deep shud­der­ing breath.

'Yes, yes, one of these days you'll write more hor­ri­ble sto­ries about Har­ry and me,' said Hermione in­dif­fer­ent­ly. 'Find some­one who cares, why don't you?'

They've run plen­ty of hor­ri­ble sto­ries about Har­ry this year with­out my help,' said Ri­ta, shoot­ing a side­ways look at him over the top of her glass and adding in a rough whis­per, 'How has that made you feel, Har­ry? Be­trayed? Dis­traught? Mis­un­der­stood?'

'He feels an­gry, of course,' said Hermione in a hard, clear voice. 'Be­cause he's told the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic the truth and the Min­is­ter's too much of an id­iot to be­lieve him.'

'So you ac­tu­al­ly stick to it, do you, that He Who Must Not Be Named is back?' said Ri­ta, low­er­ing her glass and sub­ject­ing Har­ry to a pierc­ing stare while her fin­ger strayed long­ing­ly to the clasp of the crocodile bag. 'You stand by all this garbage Dum­ble­dore's been telling ev­ery­body about You-​Know-​Who re­turn­ing and you be­ing the sole wit­ness?'

'I wasn't the sole wit­ness,' snarled Har­ry. There were a dozen-​odd Death Eaters there as well. Want their names?'

'I'd love them,' breathed Ri­ta, now fum­bling in her bag once more and gaz­ing at him as though he was the most beau­ti­ful thing she had ev­er seen. 'A great bold head­line: “Pot­ter Ac­cus­es…” A sub-​head­ing, “Har­ry Pot­ter Names Death Eaters Still Among Us”. And then, be­neath a nice big pho­to­graph of you, “Dis­turbed teenage sur­vivor of You-​Know-​Who's at­tack, Har­ry Pot­ter, 15, caused out­rage yes­ter­day by ac­cus­ing re­spectable and promi­nent mem­bers oj the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty oj be­ing Death Eaters …”'

The Quick-​Quotes Quill was ac­tu­al­ly in her hand and halfway to her mouth when the rap­tur­ous ex­pres­sion on her face died.

'But of course,' she said, low­er­ing the quill and look­ing dag­gers at Hermione, 'Lit­tle Miss Per­fect wouldn't want that sto­ry out there, would she?'

'As a mat­ter of fact,' said Hermione sweet­ly, 'that's ex­act­ly what Lit­tle Miss Per­fect does want.'

Ri­ta stared at her. So did Har­ry. Lu­na, on the oth­er hand, sang 'Weasley is our King' dream­ily un­der her breath and stirred her drink with a cock­tail onion on a stick.

'You want me to re­port what he says about He Who Must Not Be Named?' Ri­ta asked Hermione in a hushed voice.

'Yes, I do,' said Hermione. The true sto­ry. All the facts. Ex­act­ly as Har­ry re­ports them. He'll give you all the de­tails, he'll tell you the names of the undis­cov­ered Death Eaters he saw there, he'll tell you what Volde­mort looks like now - oh, get a grip on your­self,' she added con­temp­tu­ous­ly, throw­ing a nap­kin across the ta­ble, for, at the sound of Volde­mort's name, Ri­ta had jumped so bad­ly she had slopped half her glass of Firewhisky down her­self.

Ri­ta blot­ted the front of her grub­by rain­coat, still star­ing at Hermione. Then she said bald­ly, The Prophet wouldn't print it. In case you haven't no­ticed, no­body be­lieves his cock-​and-​bull sto­ry. Ev­ery­one thinks he's delu­sion­al. Now, if you let me write the sto­ry from that an­gle -'

'We don't need an­oth­er sto­ry about how Har­ry's lost his mar­bles!' said Hermione an­gri­ly. We've had plen­ty of those al­ready, thank you! I want him giv­en the op­por­tu­ni­ty to tell the truth!'

There's no mar­ket for a sto­ry like that,' said Ri­ta cold­ly.

'You mean the Prophet won't print it be­cause Fudge won't let them,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly.

Ri­ta gave Hermione a long, hard look. Then, lean­ing for­wards across the ta­ble to­wards her, she said in a busi­nesslike tone, 'All right, Fudge is lean­ing on the Prophet, but it comes to the same thing. They won't print a sto­ry that shows Har­ry in a good light. No­body wants to read it. It's against the pub­lic mood. This last Azk­aban break­out has got peo­ple quite wor­ried enough. Peo­ple just don't want to be­lieve You-​Know-​Whos back.'

'So the Dai­ly Prophet ex­ists to tell peo­ple what they want to hear, does it?' said Hermione scathing­ly.

Ri­ta sat up straight again, her eye­brows raised, and drained her glass of Firewhisky.

The Prophet ex­ists to sell it­self, you sil­ly girl,' she said cold­ly.

'My dad thinks it's an aw­ful pa­per,' said Lu­na, chip­ping in­to the con­ver­sa­tion un­ex­pect­ed­ly. Suck­ing on her cock­tail onion, she gazed at Ri­ta with her enor­mous, pro­tu­ber­ant, slight­ly mad eyes. 'He pub­lish­es im­por­tant sto­ries he thinks the pub­lic needs to know. He doesn't care about mak­ing mon­ey.'

Ri­ta looked dis­parag­ing­ly at Lu­na.

'I'm guess­ing your fa­ther runs some stupid lit­tle vil­lage newslet­ter?' she said. 'Prob­ably, Twen­ty-​Jive Ways to Min­gle With Mug­gles and the dates of the next Bring and Fly Sale?'

'No,' said Lu­na, dip­ping her onion back in­to her Gilly­wa­ter, 'he's the ed­itor of The Quib­bler.'

Ri­ta snort­ed so loud­ly that peo­ple at a near­by ta­ble looked round in alarm.

'“Im­por­tant sto­ries he thinks the pub­lic needs to know”, eh?' she said with­er­ing­ly. 'I could ma­nure my gar­den with the con­tents of that rag.'

'Well, this is your chance to raise the tone of it a bit, isn't it?' said Hermione pleas­ant­ly. 'Lu­na says her fa­ther's quite hap­py to take Har­ry's in­ter­view. That's who'll be pub­lish­ing it.'

Ri­ta stared at them both for a mo­ment, then let out a great whoop of laugh­ter.

'The Quib­bler!' she said, cack­ling. 'You think peo­ple will take him se­ri­ous­ly if he's pub­lished in The Quib­blerT

'Some peo­ple won't,' said Hermione in a lev­el voice. 'But the Dai­ly Prophet's ver­sion of the Azk­aban break­out had some gap­ing holes in it. I think a lot of peo­ple will be won­der­ing whether there isn't a bet­ter ex­pla­na­tion of what hap­pened, and if there's an al­ter­na­tive sto­ry avail­able, even if it is pub­lished in a -' she glanced side­ways at Lu­na, 'in a - well, an un­usu­al mag­azine - I think they might be rather keen to read it.'

Ri­ta didn't say any­thing for a while, but eyed Hermione shrewd­ly, her head a lit­tle to one side.

'All right, let's say for a mo­ment I'll do it,' she said abrupt­ly. 'What kind of fee am I go­ing to get?'

'I don't think Dad­dy ex­act­ly pays peo­ple to write for the mag­azine,' said Lu­na dream­ily. They do it be­cause it's an hon­our and, of course, to see their names in print.'

Ri­ta Skeeter looked as though the taste of Stinksap was strong in her mouth again as she round­ed on Hermione.

'I'm sup­posed to do this/or/ree?'

'Well, yes,' said Hermione calm­ly, tak­ing a sip of her drink. 'Oth­er­wise, as you very well know, I will in­form the au­thor­ities that you are an un­reg­is­tered An­ima­gus. Of course, the Prophet might give you rather a lot for an in­sid­er's ac­count of life in Azk­aban.'

Ri­ta looked as though she would have liked noth­ing bet­ter than to seize the pa­per um­brel­la stick­ing out of Hermione's drink and thrust it up her nose.

'I don't sup­pose I've got any choice, have I?' said Ri­ta, her voice shak­ing slight­ly. She opened her crocodile bag once more, with­drew a piece of parch­ment, and raised her Quick-​Quotes Quill.

'Dad­dy will be pleased,' said Lu­na bright­ly. A mus­cle twitched in Ri­ta's jaw.

'OK, Har­ry?' said Hermione, turn­ing to him. 'Ready to tell the pub­lic the truth?'

'I sup­pose,' said Har­ry, watch­ing Ri­ta bal­anc­ing the Quick-​Quotes Quill at the ready on the parch­ment be­tween them.

Tire away, then, Ri­ta,' said Hermione serene­ly, fish­ing a cher­ry out from the bot­tom of her glass.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 26 - Seen and Unforeseen


Lu­na said vague­ly that she did not know how soon Ri­ta's in­ter­view with Har­ry would ap­pear in The Quib­bler, that her fa­ther was ex­pect­ing a love­ly long ar­ti­cle on re­cent sight­ings of Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkacks,"- and of course, that'll be a very im­por­tant sto­ry, so Har­rys might have to wait for the fol­low­ing is­sue,' said Lu­na.

Har­ry had not found it an easy ex­pe­ri­ence to talk about the night when Volde­mort had re­turned. Ri­ta had pressed him for ev­ery lit­tle de­tail and he had giv­en her ev­ery­thing he could re­mem­ber, know­ing that this was his one big op­por­tu­ni­ty to tell the world the truth. He won­dered how peo­ple would re­act to the sto­ry. He guessed that it would con­firm a lot of peo­ple in the view that he was com­plete­ly in­sane, not least be­cause his sto­ry would be ap­pear­ing along­side ut­ter rub­bish about Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkacks. But the break­out of Bel­la­trix Lestrange and her fel­low Death Eaters had giv­en Har­ry a burn­ing de­sire to do some­thing, whether or not it worked…

'Can't wait to see what Um­bridge thinks of you go­ing pub­lic,' said Dean, sound­ing awestruck at din­ner on Mon­day night. Sea­mus was shov­el­ling down large amounts of chick­en and ham pie on Dean's oth­er side, but Har­ry knew he was lis­ten­ing.

'It's the right thing to do, Har­ry,' said Neville, who was sit­ting op­po­site him. He was rather pale, but went on in a low voice, 'It must have been… tough… talk­ing about it… was it?'

'Yeah,' mum­bled Har­ry, 'but peo­ple have got to know what Volde­mor­ts ca­pa­ble of, haven't they?'

'That's right,' said Neville, nod­ding, 'and his Death Eaters, too… peo­ple should know…'

Neville left his sen­tence hang­ing and re­turned to his baked pota­to. Sea­mus looked up, but when he caught Har­rys eye he looked quick­ly back at his plate again. Af­ter a while, Dean, Sea­mus and Neville de­part­ed for the com­mon room, leav­ing Har­ry and Hermione at the ta­ble wait­ing for Ron, who had not yet had din­ner be­cause of Quid­ditch prac­tice.

Cho Chang walked in­to the Hall with her friend Ma­ri­et­ta. Har­ry's stom­ach gave an un­pleas­ant lurch, but she did not look over at the Gryffind­or ta­ble, and sat down with her back to him.

'Oh, I for­got to ask you,' said Hermione bright­ly, glanc­ing over at the Raven­claw ta­ble, 'what hap­pened on your date with Cho? How come you were back so ear­ly?'

'Er… well, it was…' said Har­ry, pulling a dish of rhubarb crum­ble to­wards him and help­ing him­self to sec­onds, 'a com­plete fi­as­co, now you men­tion it.'

And he told her what had hap­pened in Madam Pud­di­foot's teashop.

'… so then,' he fin­ished sev­er­al min­utes lat­er, as the fi­nal bit of crum­ble dis­ap­peared, 'she jumps up, right, and says, “I'll see you around, Har­ry,” and runs out of the place!' He put down his spoon and looked at Hermione. '1 mean, what was all that about? What was go­ing on?'

Hermione glanced over at the back of Cho's head and sighed.

'Oh, Har­ry' she said sad­ly. 'Well, I'm sor­ry, but you were a bit tact­less.'

'Me, tact­less?' said Har­ry, out­raged. 'One minute we were get­ting on fine, next minute she was telling me that Roger Davies asked her out and how she used to go and snog Cedric in that stupid teashop - how was I sup­posed to feel about that?'

'Well, you see,' said Hermione, with the pa­tient air of some­one ex­plain­ing that one plus one equals two to an over-​emo­tion­al tod­dler, 'you shouldn't have told her that you want­ed to meet me halfway through your date.'

'But, but,' splut­tered Har­ry, 'but - you told me to meet you at twelve and to bring her along, how was I sup­posed to do that with­out telling her?'

'You should have told her dif­fer­ent­ly,' said Hermione, still with that mad­den­ing­ly pa­tient air. 'You should have said it was re­al­ly an­noy­ing, but I'd made you promise to come along to the Three Broom­sticks, and you re­al­ly didn't want to go, you'd much rather spend the whole day with her, but un­for­tu­nate­ly you thought you re­al­ly ought to meet me and would she please, please come along with you and hope­ful­ly you'd be able to get away more quick­ly. And it might have been a good idea to men­tion how ug­ly you think I am, too,' Hermione added as an af­terthought.

'But I don't think you're ug­ly,' said Har­ry, be­mused.

Hermione laughed.

'Har­ry you're worse than Ron… well, no, you're not,' she sighed, as Ron him­self came stump­ing in­to the Hall splat­tered with mud and look­ing grumpy. 'Look - you up­set Cho when you said you were go­ing to meet me, so she tried to make you jeal­ous. It was her way of try­ing to find out how much you liked her.'

'Is that what she was do­ing?' said Har­ry, as Ron dropped on to the bench op­po­site them and pulled ev­ery dish with­in reach to­wards him. 'Well, wouldn't it have been eas­ier if she'd just asked me whether I liked her bet­ter than you?'

'Girls don't of­ten ask ques­tions like that,' said Hermione.

'Well, they should!' said Har­ry force­ful­ly. Then I could've just told her I fan­cy her, and she wouldn't have had to get her­self all worked up again about Cedric dy­ing!'

'I'm not say­ing what she did was sen­si­ble,' said Hermione, as Gin­ny joined them, just as mud­dy as Ron and look­ing equal­ly dis­grun­tled. 'I'm just try­ing to make you see how she was feel­ing at the time.'

'You should write a book,' Ron told Hermione as he cut up his pota­toes, 'trans­lat­ing mad things girls do so boys can un­der­stand them.'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry fer­vent­ly, look­ing over at the Raven­claw ta­ble. Cho had just got up, and, still not look­ing at him, she left the Great Hall. Feel­ing rather de­pressed, he looked back at Ron and Gin­ny. 'So, how was Quid­ditch prac­tice?'

'It was a night­mare,' said Ron in a surly voice.

'Oh come on,' said Hermione, look­ing at Gin­ny, 'I'm sure it wasn't that -'

'Yes, it was,' said Gin­ny. 'It was ap­palling. An­geli­na was near­ly in tears by the end of it.'

Ron and Gin­ny went off for baths af­ter din­ner; Har­ry and Hermione re­turned to the busy Gryffind­or com­mon room and their usu­al pile of home­work. Har­ry had been strug­gling with a new star-​chart for As­tron­omy for half an hour when Fred and George turned up.

'Ron and Gin­ny not here?' asked Fred, look­ing around as he pulled up a chair, and when Har­ry shook his head, he said, 'Good. We were watch­ing their prac­tice. They're go­ing to be slaugh­tered. They're com­plete rub­bish with­out us.'

'Come on, Gin­ny's not bad,' said George fair­ly, sit­ting down next to Fred. 'Ac­tu­al­ly, I dun­no how she got so good, see­ing how we nev­er let her play with us.'

'She's been break­ing in­to your broom shed in the gar­den since the age of six and tak­ing each of your brooms out in turn when you weren't look­ing,' said Hermione from be­hind her tot­ter­ing pile of An­cient Rune books.

'Oh,' said George, look­ing mild­ly im­pressed. 'Well - that'd ex­plain it.'

'Has Ron saved a goal yet?' asked Hermione, peer­ing over the top of Mag­ical Hi­ero­glyphs and Lo­gograms.

'Well, he can do it if he doesn't think any­one's watch­ing him,' said Fred, rolling his eyes. 'So all we have to do is ask the crowd to turn their backs and talk among them­selves ev­ery time the Quaf­fle goes up his end on Sat­ur­day.'

He got up again and moved rest­less­ly to the win­dow, star­ing out across the dark grounds.

'You know, Quid­ditch was about the on­ly thing in this place worth stay­ing for.'

Hermione cast him a stern look.

'You've got ex­ams com­ing!'

Told you al­ready, we're not fussed about NEWTs,' said Fred. The Snack­box­es are ready to roll, we found out how to get rid of those boils, just a cou­ple of drops of Murt­lap essence sorts them, Lee put us on to it.'

George yawned wide­ly and looked out dis­con­so­late­ly at the cloudy night sky.

'I dun­no if I even want to watch this match. If Zacharias Smith beats us I might have to kill my­self.'

'Kill him, more like,' said Fred firm­ly.

That's the trou­ble with Quid­ditch,' said Hermione ab­sent-​mind­ed­ly, once again bent over her Runes trans­la­tion, 'it cre­ates all this bad feel­ing and ten­sion be­tween the hous­es.'

She looked up to find her copy of Spell­man's Syl­labary, and caught Fred, George and Har­ry all star­ing at her with ex­pres­sions of min­gled dis­gust and in­creduli­ty on their faces.

'Well, it does!' she said im­pa­tient­ly. 'It's on­ly a game, isn't it?'

'Hermione,' said Har­ry, shak­ing his head, 'you're good on feel­ings and stuff, but you just don't un­der­stand about Quid­ditch.'

'Maybe not,' she said dark­ly, re­turn­ing to her trans­la­tion, 'but at least my hap­pi­ness doesn't de­pend on Ron's goal­keep­ing abil­ity.'

And though Har­ry would rather have jumped off the As­tron­omy Tow­er than ad­mit it to her, by the time he had watched the game the fol­low­ing Sat­ur­day he would have giv­en any num­ber of Galleons not to care about Quid­ditch ei­ther.

The very best thing you could say about the match was that it was short; the Gryffind­or spec­ta­tors had to en­dure on­ly twen­ty-​two min­utes of agony. It was hard to say what the worst thing was: Har­ry thought it was a close-​run con­test be­tween Ron's four­teenth failed save, Slop­er miss­ing the Bludger but hit­ting An­geli­na in the mouth with his bat, and Kirke shriek­ing and falling back­wards off his broom when Zacharias Smith zoomed at him car­ry­ing the Quaf­fle. The mir­acle was that Gryffind­or on­ly lost by ten points: Gin­ny man­aged to snatch the Snitch from right un­der Huf­flepuff Seek­er Sum­mer­by's nose, so that the fi­nal score was two hun­dred and forty ver­sus two hun­dred and thir­ty.

'Good catch,' Har­ry told Gin­ny back in the com­mon room, where the at­mo­sphere re­sem­bled that of a par­tic­ular­ly dis­mal fu­ner­al.

'I was lucky,' she shrugged. 'It wasn't a very fast Snitch and Sum­mer­by's got a cold, he sneezed and closed his eyes at ex­act­ly the wrong mo­ment. Any­way, once you're back on the team -'

'Gin­ny, I've got a life­long ban.'

'You're banned as long as Um­bridge is in the school,' Gin­ny cor­rect­ed him. There's a dif­fer­ence. Any­way, once you're back, I think

I'll try out for Chas­er. An­geli­na and Ali­cia are both leav­ing next year and I pre­fer goal-​scor­ing to Seek­ing any­way.'

Har­ry looked over at Ron, who was hunched in a cor­ner, star­ing at his knees, a bot­tle of But­ter­beer clutched in his hand.

'An­geli­na still won't let him re­sign,' Gin­ny said, as though read­ing Har­ry's mind. 'She says she knows he's got it in him.'

Har­ry liked An­geli­na for the faith she was show­ing in Ron, but at the same time thought it would re­al­ly be kinder to let him leave the team. Ron had left the pitch to an­oth­er boom­ing cho­rus of 'Weasley is our King' sung with great gus­to by the Slytherins, who were now favourites to win the Quid­ditch Cup.

Fred and George wan­dered over.

'I haven't even got the heart to take the mick­ey out of him,' said Fred, look­ing over at Ron's crum­pled fig­ure. 'Mind you… when he missed the four­teenth -'

He made wild mo­tions with his arms as though do­ing an up­right dog­gy-​pad­dle.

'- well, I'll save it for par­ties, eh?'

Ron dragged him­self up to bed short­ly af­ter this. Out of re­spect for his feel­ings, Har­ry wait­ed a while be­fore go­ing up to the dor­mi­to­ry him­self, so that Ron could pre­tend to be asleep if he want­ed to. Sure enough, when Har­ry fi­nal­ly en­tered the room Ron was snor­ing a lit­tle too loud­ly to be en­tire­ly plau­si­ble.

Har­ry got in­to bed, think­ing about the match. It had been im­mense­ly frus­trat­ing watch­ing from the side­lines. He was quite im­pressed by Gin­ny's per­for­mance but he knew if he had been play­ing he could have caught the Snitch soon­er… there had been a mo­ment when it had been flut­ter­ing near Kirke's an­kle; if Gin­ny hadn't hes­itat­ed, she might have been able to scrape a win for Gryffind­or.

Um­bridge had been sit­ting a few rows be­low Har­ry and Hermione. Once or twice she had turned squat­ly in her seat to look at him, her wide toad's mouth stretched in what he thought had been a gloat­ing smile. The mem­ory of it made him feel hot with anger as he lay there in the dark. Af­ter a few min­utes, how­ev­er, he re­mem­bered that he was sup­posed to be emp­ty­ing his mind of all emo­tion be­fore he slept, as Snape kept in­struct­ing him at the end of ev­ery Oc­clu­men­cy les­son.

He tried for a mo­ment or two, but the thought of Snape on top of mem­ories of Um­bridge mere­ly in­creased his sense of grum­bling re­sent­ment and he found him­self fo­cus­ing in­stead on how much he loathed the pair of them. Slow­ly, Ron's snores died away, to be re­placed by the sound of deep, slow breath­ing. It took Har­ry much longer to get to sleep; his body was tired, but it took his brain a long time to close down.

He dreamed that Neville and Pro­fes­sor Sprout were waltz­ing around the Room of Re­quire­ment while Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall played the bag­pipes. He watched them hap­pi­ly for a while, then de­cid­ed to go and find the oth­er mem­bers of the DA.

But when he left the room he found him­self fac­ing, not the tapestry of Barn­abas the Barmy, but a torch burn­ing in its brack­et on a stone wall. He turned his head slow­ly to the left. There, at the far end of the win­dow­less pas­sage, was a plain, black door.

He walked to­wards it with a sense of mount­ing ex­cite­ment. He had the strangest feel­ing that this time he was go­ing to get lucky at last, and find the way to open it… he was feet from it, and saw with a leap of ex­cite­ment that there was a glow­ing strip of faint blue light down the right-​hand side… the door was ajar… he stretched out his hand to push it wide and -

Ron gave a loud, rasp­ing, gen­uine snore and Har­ry awoke abrupt­ly with his right hand stretched in front of him in the dark­ness, to open a door that was hun­dreds of miles away. He let it fall with a feel­ing of min­gled dis­ap­point­ment and guilt. He knew he should not have seen the door, but at the same time felt so con­sumed with cu­rios­ity about what was be­hind it that he could not help feel­ing an­noyed with Ron… if on­ly he could have saved his snore for just an­oth­er minute.

*

They en­tered the Great Hall for break­fast at ex­act­ly the same mo­ment as the post owls on Mon­day morn­ing. Hermione was not the on­ly per­son ea­ger­ly await­ing her Dai­ly Prophet: near­ly ev­ery­one was ea­ger for more news about the es­caped Death Eaters, who, de­spite many re­port­ed sight­ings, had still not been caught. She gave the de­liv­ery owl a Knut and un­fold­ed the news­pa­per ea­ger­ly while Har­ry helped him­self to or­ange juice; as he had on­ly re­ceived one note dur­ing the en­tire year, he was sure, when the first owl land­ed with a thud in front of him, that it had made a mis­take.

'Who're you af­ter?' he asked it, lan­guid­ly re­mov­ing his or­ange juice from un­der­neath its beak and lean­ing for­wards to see the re­cip­ient's name and ad­dress:

Har­ry Pot­ter Great Hall Hog­warts School

Frown­ing, he made to take the let­ter from the owl, but be­fore he could do so, three, four, five more owls had flut­tered down be­side it and were jock­ey­ing for po­si­tion, tread­ing in the but­ter and knock­ing over the salt as each one at­tempt­ed to give him their let­ter first.

'What's go­ing on?' Ron asked in amaze­ment, as the whole of Gryffind­or ta­ble leaned for­wards to watch and an­oth­er sev­en owls land­ed amongst the first ones, screech­ing, hoot­ing and flap­ping their wings.

'Har­ry!' said Hermione breath­less­ly, plung­ing her hands in­to the feath­ery mass and pulling out a screech owl bear­ing a long, cylin­dri­cal pack­age. 'I think I know what this means - open this one first!'

Har­ry ripped off the brown pack­ag­ing. Out rolled a tight­ly furled copy of the March edi­tion of The Quib­bler. He un­rolled it to see his own face grin­ning sheep­ish­ly at him from the front cov­er. In large red let­ters across this pic­ture were the words:

SPEAKS OUT AT LAST:

THE TRUTH ABOUT HE WHO MUST NOT BE NAMED

AND THE NIGHT I SAW HIM RE­TURN

'It's good, isn't it?' said Lu­na, who had drift­ed over to the Gryffind­or ta­ble and now squeezed her­self on to the bench be­tween Fred and Ron. 'It came out yes­ter­day, I asked Dad to send you a free copy. I ex­pect all these,' she waved a hand at the as­sem­bled owls still scrab­bling around on the ta­ble in front of Har­ry, 'are let­ters from read­ers.'

That's what I thought,' said Hermione ea­ger­ly. 'Har­ry, d'you mind if we -?'

'Help your­self,' said Har­ry, feel­ing slight­ly be­mused.

Ron and Hermione both start­ed rip­ping open en­velopes.

This one's from a bloke who thinks you're off your rock­er,' said Ron, glanc­ing down his let­ter. 'Ah well…'

This wom­an rec­om­mends you try a good course of Shock Spells at St Mun­go's,' said Hermione, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed and crum­pling up a sec­ond.

This one looks OK, though,' said Har­ry slow­ly, scan­ning a long let­ter from a witch in Pais­ley. 'Hey, she says she be­lieves me!'

This one's in two minds,' said Fred, who had joined in the let­ter-​open­ing with en­thu­si­asm. 'Says you don't come across as a mad per­son, but he re­al­ly doesn't want to be­lieve You-​Know-​Who's back so he doesn't know what to think now. Blimey, what a waste of parch­ment.'

'Here's an­oth­er one you've con­vinced, Har­ry!' said Hermione ex­cit­ed­ly. 'Hav­ing read your side of the sto­ry, I am forced to the con­clu­sion that the Dai­ly Prophet has treat­ed you very un­fair­ly… lit­tle though I want to think that He Who Must Not Be Named has re­turned, I am forced to ac­cept that you are telling the truth… Oh, this is won­der­ful!'

'An­oth­er one who thinks you're bark­ing,' said Ron, throw­ing a crum­pled let­ter over his shoul­der '… but this one says you've got her con­vert­ed and she now thinks you're a re­al hero - she's put in a pho­to­graph, too - wow!'

'What is go­ing on here?' said a false­ly sweet, girl­ish voice.

Har­ry looked up with his hands full of en­velopes. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was stand­ing be­hind Fred and Lu­na, her bulging toad's eyes scan­ning the mess of owls and let­ters on the ta­ble in front of Har­ry. Be­hind her he saw many of the stu­dents watch­ing them avid­ly.

Why have you got all these let­ters, Mr Pot­ter?' she asked slow­ly.

'Is that a crime now?' said Fred loud­ly. 'Get­ting mail?'

'Be care­ful, Mr Weasley, or I shall have to put you in de­ten­tion,' said Um­bridge. 'Well, Mr Pot­ter?'

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, but he did not see how he could keep what he had done qui­et; it was sure­ly on­ly a mat­ter of time be­fore a copy of The Quib­bler came to Um­bridges at­ten­tion.

'Peo­ple have writ­ten to me be­cause I gave an in­ter­view,' said Har­ry. 'About what hap­pened to me last June.'

For some rea­son he glanced up at the staff ta­ble as he said this. Har­ry had the strangest teel­ing that Dum­ble­dore had been watch­ing him a sec­ond be­fore, but when he looked to­wards the Head­mas­ter he seemed to be ab­sorbed in con­ver­sa­tion with Pro­fes­sor Flitwick.

'An in­ter­view?' re­peat­ed Um­bridge, her voice thin­ner and high­er than ev­er. 'What do you mean?'

'I mean a re­porter asked me ques­tions and I an­swered them,' said Har­ry. 'Here -'

And he threw the copy of The Quib­bler to her. She caught it and stared down at the cov­er. Her pale, doughy face turned an ug­ly, patchy vi­olet.

'When did you do this?' she asked, her voice trem­bling slight­ly.

'Last Hogsmeade week­end,' said Har­ry.

She looked up at him, in­can­des­cent with rage, the mag­azine shak­ing in her stub­by fin­gers.

There will be no more Hogsmeade trips for you, Mr Pot­ter,' she whis­pered. 'How you dare… how you could…' She took a deep breath. 'I have tried again and again to teach you not to tell lies. The mes­sage, ap­par­ent­ly, has still not sunk in. Fifty points from Gryffind­or and an­oth­er week's worth of de­ten­tions.'

She stalked away, clutch­ing The Quib­bler to her chest, the eyes of many stu­dents fol­low­ing her.

By mid-​morn­ing enor­mous signs had been put up all over the school, not just on house no­tice­boards, but in the cor­ri­dors and class­rooms too.

BY OR­DER OF THE HIGH IN­QUISI­TOR OF HOG­WARTS

Any stu­dent found in pos­ses­sion of the mag­azine The Quib­bler will be ex­pelled.

The above is in ac­cor­dance with Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​sev­en.

Signed: Do­lores Jane Um­bridge, High In­quisi­tor

•

For some rea­son, ev­ery time Hermione caught sight of one of these signs she beamed with plea­sure.

'What ex­act­ly are you so hap­py about?' Har­ry asked her.

'Oh, Har­ry, don't you see?' Hermione breathed. 'If she could have done one thing to make ab­so­lute­ly sure that ev­ery sin­gle per­son in this school will read your in­ter­view, it was ban­ning it!'

And it seemed that Hermione was quite right. By the end of the day, though Har­ry had not seen so much as a cor­ner of The Quib­bler any­where in the school, the whole place seemed to be quot­ing the in­ter­view to each oth­er. Har­ry heard them whis­per­ing about it as they queued up out­side class­es, dis­cussing it over lunch and in the back of lessons, while Hermione even re­port­ed that ev­ery oc­cu­pant of the cu­bi­cles in the girls' toi­lets had been talk­ing about it when she nipped in there be­fore An­cient Runes.

Then they spot­ted me, and ob­vi­ous­ly they know I know you, so they bom­bard­ed me with ques­tions,' Hermione told Har­ry, her eyes shin­ing, 'and Har­ry, I think they be­lieve you, I re­al­ly do, I think you've fi­nal­ly got them con­vinced!'

Mean­while, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was stalk­ing the school, stop­ping stu­dents at ran­dom and de­mand­ing that they turn out their books and pock­ets: Har­ry knew she was look­ing for copies of The Quib­bler, but the stu­dents were sev­er­al steps ahead of her. The pages car­ry­ing Har­rys in­ter­view had been be­witched to re­sem­ble ex­tracts from text­books if any­one but them­selves read it, or else wiped mag­ical­ly blank un­til they want­ed to pe­ruse it again. Soon it seemed that ev­ery sin­gle per­son in the school had read it.

The teach­ers were of course for­bid­den from men­tion­ing the in­ter­view by Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​six, but they found ways to ex­press their feel­ings about it all the same. Pro­fes­sor Sprout award­ed Gryffind­or twen­ty points when Har­ry passed her a wa­ter­ing can; a beam­ing Pro­fes­sor Flitwick pressed a box of squeak­ing sug­ar mice on him at the end of Charms, said, 'Shh!' and hur­ried away; and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney broke in­to hys­ter­ical sobs dur­ing Div­ina­tion and an­nounced to the star­tled class, and a very dis­ap­prov­ing Um­bridge, that Har­ry was not go­ing to suf­fer an ear­ly death af­ter all, but would live to a ripe old age, be­come Min­is­ter for Mag­ic and have twelve chil­dren.

But what made Har­ry hap­pi­est was Cho catch­ing up with him as he was hur­ry­ing along to Trans­fig­ura­tion the next day. Be­fore he knew what had hap­pened, her hand was in his and she was breath­ing in his ear, 'I'm re­al­ly, re­al­ly sor­ry. That in­ter­view was so brave… it made me cry.'

He was sor­ry to hear she had shed even more tears over it, but very glad they were on speak­ing terms again, and even more pleased when she gave him a swift kiss on the cheek and hur­ried off again. And un­be­liev­ably, no soon­er had he ar­rived out­side Trans­fig­ura­tion than some­thing just as good hap­pened: Sea­mus stepped out of the queue to face him.

'I just want­ed to say,' he mum­bled, squint­ing at Har­ry's left knee, '1 be­lieve you. And I've sent a copy of that mag­azine to me mam.'

If any­thing more was need­ed to com­plete Har­ry's hap­pi­ness, it was the re­ac­tion he got from Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle. He saw them with their heads to­geth­er lat­er that af­ter­noon in the li­brary; they were with a weedy-​look­ing boy Hermione whis­pered was called Theodore Nott. They looked round at Har­ry as he browsed the shelves for the book he need­ed on Par­tial Van­ish­ment: Goyle cracked his knuck­les threat­en­ing­ly and Mal­foy whis­pered some­thing un­doubt­ed­ly malev­olent to Crabbe. Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well why they were act­ing like this: he had named all of their fa­thers as Death Eaters.

'And the best bit,' whis­pered Hermione glee­ful­ly, as they left the li­brary, 'is they can't con­tra­dict you, be­cause they can't ad­mit they've read the ar­ti­cle!'

To cap it all, Lu­na told him over din­ner that no is­sue of The Quib­bler had ev­er sold out faster.

'Dad's reprint­ing!' she told Har­ry, her eyes pop­ping ex­cit­ed­ly. 'He can't be­lieve it, he says peo­ple seem even more in­ter­est­ed in this than the Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkacks!'

Har­ry was a hero in the Gryffind­or com­mon room that night. Dar­ing­ly, Fred and George had put an En­large­ment Charm on the front cov­er of The Quib­bler and hung it on the wall, so that Har­ry's gi­ant head gazed down up­on the pro­ceed­ings, oc­ca­sion­al­ly say­ing things like THE MIN­ISTRY ARE MO­RONS' and 'EAT DUNG, UM­BRIDGE' in a boom­ing voice. Hermione did not find this very amus­ing; she said it in­ter­fered with her con­cen­tra­tion, and she end­ed up go­ing to bed ear­ly out of ir­ri­ta­tion. Har­ry had to ad­mit that the poster was not quite as fun­ny af­ter an hour or two, es­pe­cial­ly when the talk­ing spell had start­ed to wear off, so that it mere­ly shout­ed dis­con­nect­ed words like 'DUNG' and 'UM­BRIDGE' at more and more fre­quent in­ter­vals in a pro­gres­sive­ly high­er voice. In fact, it start­ed to make his head ache and his scar be­gan prick­ling un­com­fort­ably again. To dis­ap­point­ed moans from the many peo­ple who were sit­ting around him, ask­ing him to re­live his in­ter­view for the umpteenth time, he an­nounced that he too need­ed an ear­ly night.

The dor­mi­to­ry was emp­ty when he reached it. He rest­ed his fore­head for a mo­ment against the cool glass of the win­dow be­side his bed; it felt sooth­ing against his scar. Then he un­dressed and got in­to bed, wish­ing his headache would go away. He al­so felt slight­ly sick. He rolled over on to his side, closed his eyes, and fell asleep al­most at once…

He was stand­ing in a dark, cur­tained room lit by a sin­gle branch of can­dles. His hands were clenched on the back of a chair in front of him. They were long-​fin­gered and white as though they had not seen sun­light for years and looked like large, pale spi­ders against the dark vel­vet of the chair.

Be­yond the chair, in a pool of light cast up­on the floor by the can­dles, knelt a man in black robes.

'I have been bad­ly ad­vised, it seems,' said Har­ry, in a high, cold voice that pulsed with anger.

'Mas­ter, I crave your par­don,' croaked the man kneel­ing on the floor. The back of his head glim­mered in the can­dle­light. He seemed to be trem­bling.

'I do not blame you, Rook­wood,' said Har­ry in that cold, cru­el voice.

He re­lin­quished his grip on the chair and walked around it, clos­er to the man cow­er­ing on the floor, un­til he stood di­rect­ly over him in the dark­ness, look­ing down from a far greater height than usu­al.

'You are sure of your facts, Rook­wood?' asked Har­ry.

'Yes, My Lord, yes… I used to work in the De­part­ment af­ter -af­ter all…'

'Av­ery told me Bode would be able to re­move it.'

'Bode could nev­er have tak­en it, Mas­ter… Bode would have known he could not… un­doubt­ed­ly, that is why he fought so hard against Mal­foy's Im­perius Curse…'

'Stand up, Rook­wood,' whis­pered Har­ry.

The kneel­ing man al­most fell over in his haste to obey. His face was pock­marked; the scars were thrown in­to re­lief by the can­dle­light. He re­mained a lit­tle stooped when stand­ing, as though halfway through a bow, and he dart­ed ter­ri­fied looks up at Har­ry's face.

'You have done well to tell me this,' said Har­ry. 'Very well… I have wast­ed months on fruit­less schemes, it seems… but no mat­ter… we be­gin again, from now. You have Lord Volde­mort's grat­itude, Rook­wood…'

'My Lord… yes, My Lord,' gasped Rook­wood, his voice hoarse with re­lief.

'I shall need your help. I shall need all the in­for­ma­tion you can give me.'

'Of course, My Lord, of course… any­thing…'

'Very well… you may go. Send Av­ery to me.'

Rook­wood scur­ried back­wards, bow­ing, and dis­ap­peared through a door.

Left alone in the dark room, Har­ry turned to­wards the wall. A cracked, age-​spot­ted mir­ror hung on the wall in the shad­ows. Har­ry moved to­wards it. His re­flec­tion grew larg­er and clear­er in the dark­ness… a face whiter than a skull… red eyes with slits for pupils…

'NOOOOOOOOO!'

'What?' yelled a voice near­by.

Har­ry flailed around mad­ly, be­came en­tan­gled in the hang­ings and fell out of his bed. For a few sec­onds he did not know where he was; he was con­vinced he was about to see the white, skull-​like face loom­ing at him out ol the dark again, then very near to him Ron's voice spoke. . 'Will you stop act­ing like a ma­ni­ac so I can get you out of here!'

Ron wrenched the hang­ings apart and Har­ry stared up at him in the moon­light, flat on his back, his scar sear­ing with pain. Ron looked as though he had just been get­ting ready for bed; one arm was out of his robes.

'Has some­one been at­tacked again?' asked Ron, pulling Har­ry rough­ly to his feet. 'Is it Dad? Is it that snake?'

'No - ev­ery­one's fine -' gasped Har­ry, whose fore­head felt as though it were on fire. 'Well… Av­ery isn't… he's in trou­ble… he gave him the wrong in­for­ma­tion… Volde­mort's re­al­ly an­gry

Har­ry groaned and sank, shak­ing, on to his bed, rub­bing his scar.

'But Rook­wood's go­ing to help him now… he's on the right track again…"

'What are you talk­ing about?' said Ron, sound­ing scared. 'D'you mean… did you just see You-​Know-​Who?'

'I was You-​Know-​Who,' said Har­ry, and he stretched out his hands in the dark­ness and held them up to his face, to check that they were no longer death­ly white and long-​fin­gered. 'He was with Rook­wood, he's one of the Death Eaters who es­caped from Azk­aban, re­mem­ber? Rook­wood's just told him Bode couldn't have done it.'

'Done what?'

'Re­move some­thing… he said Bode would have known he couldn't have done it… Bode was un­der the Im­perius Curse… I think he said Mal­foy's dad put it on him.'

'Bode was be­witched to re­move some­thing?' Ron said. 'But -Har­ry, that's got to be -'

The weapon,' Har­ry fin­ished the sen­tence for him. 'I know'

The dor­mi­to­ry door opened; Dean and Sea­mus came in. Har­ry swung his legs back in­to bed. He did not want to look as though any­thing odd had just hap­pened, see­ing as Sea­mus had on­ly just stopped think­ing Har­ry was a nut­ter.

'Did you say,' mur­mured Ron, putting his head close to Har­ry's on the pre­tence of help­ing him­self to wa­ter from the jug on his bed­side ta­ble, 'that you were You-​Know-​Who?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

Ron took an un­nec­es­sar­ily large gulp of wa­ter; Har­ry saw it spill over his chin on to his chest.

'Har­ry,' he said, as Dean and Sea­mus clat­tered around nois­ily, pulling off their robes and talk­ing, 'you've got to tell -'

'I haven't got to tell any­one,' said Har­ry short­ly. '1 wouldn't have seen it at all if I could do Oc­clu­men­cy. I'm sup­posed to have learned to shut this stuff out. That's what they want.'

By 'they' he meant Dum­ble­dore. He got back in­to bed and rolled over on to his side with his back to Ron and af­ter a while he heard Ron's mat­tress creak as he, too, lay back down. Har­ry's scar be­gan to burn; he bit hard on his pil­low to stop him­self mak­ing a noise. Some­where, he knew, Av­ery was be­ing pun­ished.

*

Har­ry and Ron wait­ed un­til break next morn­ing to tell Hermione ex­act­ly what had hap­pened; they want­ed to be ab­so­lute­ly sure they could not be over­heard. Stand­ing in their usu­al cor­ner of the cool and breezy court­yard, Har­ry told her ev­ery de­tail of the dream he could re­mem­ber. When he had fin­ished, she said noth­ing at all for a few mo­ments, but stared with a kind of painful in­ten­si­ty at Fred and George, who were both head­less and sell­ing their mag­ical hats from un­der their cloaks on the oth­er side of the yard.

'So that's why they killed him,' she said qui­et­ly, with­draw­ing her gaze from Fred and George at last. 'When Bode tried to steal this weapon, some­thing fun­ny hap­pened to him. I think there must be de­fen­sive spells on it, or around it, to stop peo­ple touch­ing it. That's why he was in St Mun­go's, his brain had gone all fun­ny and he couldn't talk. But re­mem­ber what the Heal­er told us? He was re­cov­er­ing. And they couldn't risk him get­ting bet­ter, could they? I mean, the shock of what­ev­er hap­pened when he touched that weapon prob­ably made the Im­perius Curse lift. Once he'd got his voice back, he'd ex­plain what he'd been do­ing, wouldn't he? They would have known he'd been sent to steal the weapon. Of course, it would have been easy for Lu­cius Mal­foy to put the curse on him. Nev­er out of the Min­istry, is he?'

'He was even hang­ing around that day I had my hear­ing,' said Har­ry. 'In the - hang on…' he said slow­ly. 'He was in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies cor­ri­dor that day! Your dad said he was prob­ably try­ing to sneak down and find out what hap­pened in my hear­ing, but what if -'

'Stur­gis!' gasped Hermione, look­ing thun­der­struck.

'Sor­ry?' said Ron, look­ing be­wil­dered.

'Stur­gis Pod­more -' said Hermione breath­less­ly, 'ar­rest­ed for try­ing to get through a door! Lu­cius Mal­foy must have got him too! I bet he did it the day you saw him there, Har­ry. Stur­gis had Moody's In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, right? So, what if he was stand­ing guard by the door, in­vis­ible, and Mal­foy heard him move - or guessed some­one was there - or just did the Im­perius Curse on the off-​chance there'd be a guard there? So, when Stur­gis next had an op­por­tu­ni­ty - prob­ably when it was his turn on guard du­ty again - he tried to get in­to the De­part­ment to steal the weapon for Volde­mort - Ron, be qui­et - but he got caught and sent to Azk­aban…"

She gazed at Har­ry.

'And now Rook­wood's told Volde­mort how to get the weapon?'

'I didn't hear all the con­ver­sa­tion, but that's what it sound­ed like,' said Har­ry. 'Rook­wood used to work there… maybe Volde­mort'll send Rook­wood to do it?'

Hermione nod­ded, ap­par­ent­ly still lost in thought. Then, quite abrupt­ly, she said, 'But you shouldn't have seen this at all, Har­ry.'

'What?' he said, tak­en aback.

'You're sup­posed to be learn­ing how to close your mind to this sort of thing,' said Hermione, sud­den­ly stern.

'I know I am,' said Har­ry. 'But -'

'Well, I think we should just try and for­get what you saw,' said Hermione firm­ly. 'And you ought to put in a bit more ef­fort on your Oc­clu­men­cy from now on.'

Har­ry was so an­gry with her he did not talk to her for the rest of the day, which proved to be an­oth­er bad one. When peo­ple were not dis­cussing the es­caped Death Eaters in the cor­ri­dors, they were laugh­ing at Gryffind­or's abysmal per­for­mance in their match against Huf­flepuff; the Slytherins were singing Weasley is our King' so loud­ly and fre­quent­ly that by sun­down Filch had banned it from the cor­ri­dors out of sheer ir­ri­ta­tion.

The week did not im­prove as it pro­gressed. Har­ry re­ceived two more 'D's in Po­tions; he was still on ten­ter­hooks that Ha­grid might get the sack; and he couldn't stop him­self dwelling on the dream in which he had been Volde­mort - though he didn't bring it up with Ron and Hermione again; he didn't want an­oth­er telling-​off from Hermione. He wished very much that he could have talked to Sir­ius about it, but that was out of the ques­tion, so he tried to push the mat­ter to the back of his mind.

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, the back of his mind was no longer the se­cure place it had once been.

'Get up, Pot­ter.'

A cou­ple of weeks af­ter his dream of Rook­wood, Har­ry was to be found, yet again, kneel­ing on the floor of Snape's of­fice, try­ing to clear his head. He had just been forced, yet again, to re­live a stream of very ear­ly mem­ories he had not even re­alised he still had, most of them con­cern­ing hu­mil­ia­tions Dud­ley and his gang had in­flict­ed up­on him in pri­ma­ry school.

That last mem­ory,' said Snape. 'What was it?'

'I don't know,' said Har­ry, get­ting weari­ly to his feet. He was find­ing it in­creas­ing­ly dif­fi­cult to dis­en­tan­gle sep­arate mem­ories from the rush of im­ages and sound that Snape kept call­ing forth. 'You mean the one where my cousin tried to make me stand in the toi­let?'

'No,' said Snape soft­ly. 'I mean the one with a man kneel­ing in the mid­dle of a dark­ened room…'

'It's… noth­ing,' said Har­ry.

Snape's dark eyes bored in­to Har­ry's. Re­mem­ber­ing what Snape had said about eye con­tact be­ing cru­cial to Legili­men­cy, Har­ry blinked and looked away.

'How do that man and that room come to be in­side your head, Pot­ter?' said Snape.

'It -' said Har­ry, look­ing ev­ery­where but at Snape, 'it was -just a dream I had.'

'A dream?' re­peat­ed Snape.

There was a pause dur­ing which Har­ry stared fixed­ly at a large dead frog sus­pend­ed in a jar of pur­ple liq­uid.

'You do know why we are here, don't you, Pot­ter?' said Snape, in a low, dan­ger­ous voice. 'You do know why I am giv­ing up my evenings to this te­dious job?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry stiffly.

'Re­mind me why we are here, Pot­ter.'

'So I can learn Oc­clu­men­cy,' said Har­ry, now glar­ing at a dead eel.

'Cor­rect, Pot­ter. And dim though you may be -' Har­ry looked back at Snape, hat­ing him '- I would have thought that af­ter over two months of lessons you might have made some progress. How many oth­er dreams about the Dark Lord have you had?'

'Just that one,' lied Har­ry.

'Per­haps,' said Snape, his dark, cold eyes nar­row­ing slight­ly, 'per­haps you ac­tu­al­ly en­joy hav­ing these vi­sions and dreams, Pot­ter. Maybe they make you feel spe­cial - im­por­tant?'

'No, they don't,' said Har­ry, his jaw set and his fin­gers clenched tight­ly around the han­dle of his wand.

That is just as well, Pot­ter,' said Snape cold­ly, 'be­cause you are nei­ther spe­cial nor im­por­tant, and it is not up to you to find out what the Dark Lord is say­ing to his Death Eaters.'

'No - that's your job, isn't it?' Har­ry shot at him.

He had not meant to say it; it had burst out of him in tem­per. For a long mo­ment they stared at each oth­er, Har­ry con­vinced he had gone too far. But there was a cu­ri­ous, al­most sat­is­fied ex­pres­sion on Snape's face when he an­swered.

'Yes, Pot­ter,' he said, his eyes glint­ing. That is my job. Now, if you are ready, we will start again.'

He raised his wand: 'One — two - three - Legili­mensl'

A hun­dred De­men­tors were swoop­ing to­wards Har­ry across the lake in the grounds… he screwed up his face in con­cen­tra­tion… they were com­ing clos­er… he could see the dark holes be­neath their hoods… yet he could al­so see Snape stand­ing in front of him, his eyes fixed on Har­ry's face, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath… and some­how, Snape was grow­ing clear­er, and the De­men­tors were grow­ing fainter…

Har­ry raised his own wand.

'Pro­tego!'

Snape stag­gered - his wand flew up­wards, away from Har­ry -and sud­den­ly Har­ry's mind was teem­ing with mem­ories that were not his: a hook-​nosed man was shout­ing at a cow­er­ing wom­an, while a small dark-​haired boy cried in a cor­ner… a greasy-​haired teenag­er sat alone in a dark bed­room, point­ing his wand at the ceil­ing, shoot­ing down flies… a girl was laugh­ing as a scrawny boy tried to mount a buck­ing broom­stick -

'ENOUGH!'

Har­ry felt as though he had been pushed hard in the chest; he stag­gered sev­er­al steps back­wards, hit some of the shelves cov­er­ing Snape's walls and heard some­thing crack. Snape was shak­ing slight­ly, and was very white in the face.

The back of Har­ry's robes was damp. One of the jars be­hind him had bro­ken when he fell against it; the pick­led slimy thing with­in was swirling in its drain­ing po­tion.

'Reparo,' hissed Snape, and the jar sealed it­self at once. 'Well, Pot­ter… that was cer­tain­ly an im­prove­ment…' Pant­ing slight­ly, Snape straight­ened the Pen­sieve in which he had again stored some of his thoughts be­fore start­ing the les­son, al­most as though he was check­ing they were still there. 'I don't re­mem­ber telling you to use a Shield Charm… but there is no doubt that it was ef­fec­tive…'

Har­ry did not speak; he felt that to say any­thing might be dan­ger­ous. He was sure he had just bro­ken in­to Snape's mem­ories, that he had just seen scenes from Snape's child­hood. It was un­nerv­ing to think that the lit­tle boy who had been cry­ing as he watched his par­ents shout­ing was ac­tu­al­ly stand­ing in front of him with such loathing in his eyes.

'Let's try again, shall we?' said Snape.

Har­ry felt a thrill of dread; he was about to pay for what had just hap­pened, he was sure of it. They moved back in­to po­si­tion with the desk be­tween them, Har­ry feel­ing he was go­ing to find it much hard­er to emp­ty his mind this time.

'On the count of three, then,' said Snape, rais­ing his wand once more. 'One - two -'

Har­ry did not have time to gath­er him­self to­geth­er and at­tempt to clear his mind be­fore Snape cried, 'Legili­mens!'

He was hurtling along the cor­ri­dor to­wards the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, past the blank stone walls, past the torch­es - the plain black door was grow­ing ev­er larg­er; he was mov­ing so fast he was go­ing to col­lide with it, he was feet from it and again he could see that chink of faint blue light -

The door had flown open! He was through it at last, in­side a black-​walled, black-​floored cir­cu­lar room lit with blue-​flamed can­dles, and there were more doors all around him - he need­ed to go on - but which door ought he to take -?

TOT­TER!'

Har­ry opened his eyes. He was flat on his back again with no mem­ory of hav­ing got there; he was al­so pant­ing as though he re­al­ly had run the length of the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies cor­ri­dor, re­al­ly had sprint­ed through the black door and found the cir­cu­lar room.

'Ex­plain your­self!' said Snape, who was stand­ing over him, look­ing fu­ri­ous.

'I… dun­no what hap­pened,' said Har­ry truth­ful­ly, stand­ing up. There was a lump on the back of his head from where he had hit the ground and he felt fever­ish. 'I've nev­er seen that be­fore. I mean, I told you, I've dreamed about the door… but it's nev­er opened be­fore

'You are not work­ing hard enough!'

For some rea­son, Snape seemed even an­gri­er than he had done two min­utes be­fore, when Har­ry had seen in­to his teach­er's mem­ories.

'You are lazy and slop­py, Pot­ter, it is small won­der that the Dark Lord -'

'Can you tell me some­thing, sir?' said Har­ry, fir­ing up again. 'Why do you call Volde­mort the Dark Lord? I've on­ly ev­er heard Death Eaters call him that.'

Snape opened his mouth in a snarl - and a wom­an screamed from some­where out­side the room.

Snapes head jerked up­wards; he was gaz­ing at the ceil­ing.

'What the -?' he mut­tered.

Har­ry could hear a muf­fled com­mo­tion com­ing from what he thought might be the En­trance Hall. Snape looked round at him, frown­ing.

'Did you see any­thing un­usu­al on your way down here, Pot­ter?'

Har­ry shook his head. Some­where above them, the wom­an screamed again. Snape strode to his of­fice door, his wand still held at the ready, and swept out of sight. Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then fol­lowed.

The screams were in­deed com­ing from the En­trance Hall; they grew loud­er as Har­ry ran to­wards the stone steps lead­ing up from the dun­geons. When he reached the top he found the En­trance Hall packed; stu­dents had come flood­ing out of the Great Hall, where din­ner was still in progress, to see what was go­ing on; oth­ers had crammed them­selves on to the mar­ble stair­case. Har­ry pushed for­wards through a knot of tall Slytherins and saw that the on­look­ers had formed a great ring, some of them look­ing shocked, oth­ers even fright­ened. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was di­rect­ly op­po­site Har­ry on the oth­er side of the Hall; she looked as though what she was watch­ing made her feel faint­ly sick.

Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the En­trance Hall with her wand in one hand and an emp­ty sher­ry bot­tle in the oth­er, look­ing ut­ter­ly mad. Her hair was stick­ing up on end, her glass­es were lop­sid­ed so that one eye was mag­ni­fied more than the oth­er; her in­nu­mer­able shawls and scarves were trail­ing hap­haz­ard­ly from her shoul­ders, giv­ing the im­pres­sion that she was falling apart at the seams. Two large trunks lay on the floor be­side her, one of them up­side-​down; it looked very much as though it had been thrown down the stairs af­ter her. Pro­fes­sor Trelawney was star­ing, ap­par­ent­ly ter­ri­fied, at some­thing Har­ry could not see but which seemed to be stand­ing at the foot of the stairs.

'No!' she shrieked. 'NO! This can­not be hap­pen­ing… it can­not… I refuse to ac­cept it!'

'You didn't re­alise this was com­ing?' said a high girl­ish voice, sound­ing cal­lous­ly amused, and Har­ry, mov­ing slight­ly to his right, saw that Trelawney's ter­ri­fy­ing vi­sion was noth­ing oth­er than Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'In­ca­pable though you are of pre­dict­ing even to­mor­row's weath­er, you must sure­ly have re­alised that your piti­ful per­for­mance dur­ing my in­spec­tions, and lack of any im­prove­ment, would make it in­evitable that you would be sacked?'

'You c - can't!' howled Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, tears stream­ing down her face from be­hind her enor­mous lens­es, 'you c - can't sack me! I've b - been here six­teen years! H - Hog­warts is in - my h - home!'

'It was your home,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, and Har­ry was re­volt­ed to see the en­joy­ment stretch­ing her toad­like face as she watched Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sink, sob­bing un­con­trol­lably, on to one of her trunks, 'un­til an hour ago, when the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic coun­ter­signed your Or­der of Dis­missal. Now kind­ly re­move your­self from this Hall. You are em­bar­rass­ing us.'

But she stood and watched, with an ex­pres­sion of gloat­ing en­joy­ment, as Pro­fes­sor Trelawney shud­dered and moaned, rock­ing back­wards and for­wards on her trunk in parox­ysms of grief. Har­ry heard a muf­fled sob to his left and looked around. Laven­der and Par­vati were both cry­ing qui­et­ly, their arms round each oth­er. Then he heard foot­steps. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had bro­ken away from the spec­ta­tors, marched straight up to Pro­fes­sor Trelawney and was pat­ting her firm­ly on the back while with­draw­ing a large hand­ker­chief from with­in her robes.

There, there, Sybill… calm down… blow your nose on this… it's not as bad as you think, now… you are not go­ing to have to leave Hog­warts…"

'Oh re­al­ly, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall?' said Um­bridge in a dead­ly voice, tak­ing a few steps for­ward. 'And your au­thor­ity for that state­ment is… ?'

That would be mine,' said a deep voice.

The oak­en front doors had swung open. Stu­dents be­side them scut­tled out of the way as Dum­ble­dore ap­peared in the en­trance. What he had been do­ing out in the grounds Har­ry could not imag­ine, but there was some­thing im­pres­sive about the sight of him framed in the door­way against an odd­ly misty night. Leav­ing the doors wide open be­hind him he strode for­wards through the cir­cle of on­look­ers to­wards Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, tear-​stained and trem­bling, on her trunk, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall along­side her.

'Yours, Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore?' said Um­bridge, with a sin­gu­lar­ly un­pleas­ant lit­tle laugh. 'I'm afraid you do not un­der­stand the po­si­tion. I have here -' she pulled a parch­ment scroll from with­in her robes'- an Or­der of Dis­missal signed by my­self and the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic. Un­der the terms of Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​three, the High In­quisi­tor of Hog­warts has the pow­er to in­spect, place up­on pro­ba­tion and sack any teach­er she - that is to say, I - feel is not per­form­ing to the stan­dards re­quired by the Min­istry of Mag­ic. I have de­cid­ed that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney is not up to scratch. I have dis­missed her.'

To Har­ry's very great sur­prise, Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued to smile. He looked down at Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, who was still sob­bing and chok­ing on her trunk, and said, 'You are quite right, of course, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. As High In­quisi­tor you have ev­ery right to dis­miss my teach­ers. You do not, how­ev­er, have the au­thor­ity to send them away from the cas­tle. I am afraid,' he went on, with a cour­te­ous lit­tle bow, that the pow­er to do that still re­sides with the Head­mas­ter, and it is my wish that Pro­fes­sor Trelawney con­tin­ue to live at Hog­warts.'

At this, Pro­fes­sor Trelawney gave a wild lit­tle laugh in which a hic­cough was bare­ly hid­den.

'No - no, I'll g - go, Dum­ble­dore! I sh - shall - leave Hog­warts and's - seek my for­tune else­where -'

'No,' said Dum­ble­dore sharply. 'It is my wish that you re­main, Sybill.'

He turned to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Might I ask you to es­cort Sybill back up­stairs, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall?'

'Of course,' said McG­ona­gall. 'Up you get, Sybill…'

Pro­fes­sor Sprout came hur­ry­ing for­wards out of the crowd and grabbed Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's oth­er arm. To­geth­er, they guid­ed her past Um­bridge and up the mar­ble stairs. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick went scur­ry­ing af­ter them, his wand held out be­fore him; he squeaked 'Lo­co­mo­tor trunks!' and Pro­fes­sor Trelawney's lug­gage rose in­to the air and pro­ceed­ed up the stair­case af­ter her, Pro­fes­sor Flitwick bring­ing up the rear.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was stand­ing stock still, star­ing at Dum­ble­dore, who con­tin­ued to smile be­nign­ly.

'And what,' she said, in a whis­per that car­ried all around the En­trance Hall, 'are you go­ing to do with her once I ap­point a new Div­ina­tion teach­er who needs her lodg­ings?'

'Oh, that won't be a prob­lem,' said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly. 'You see, I have al­ready found us a new Div­ina­tion teach­er, and he will pre­fer lodg­ings on the ground floor.'

'You've found -?' said Um­bridge shril­ly. 'You've found? Might I re­mind you, Dum­ble­dore, that un­der Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​two -'

The Min­istry has the right to ap­point a suit­able can­di­date if -and on­ly if- the Head­mas­ter is un­able to find one,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'And I am hap­py to say that on this oc­ca­sion I have suc­ceed­ed. May I in­tro­duce you?'

He turned to face the open front doors, through which night mist was now drift­ing. Har­ry heard hooves. There was a shocked mur­mur around the Hall and those near­est the doors hasti­ly moved even fur­ther back­wards, some of them trip­ping over in their haste to clear a path for the new­com­er.

Through the mist came a face Har­ry had seen once be­fore on a dark, dan­ger­ous night in the For­bid­den For­est: white-​blond hair and as­ton­ish­ing­ly blue eyes; the head and tor­so of a man joined to the palomi­no body of a horse.

This is Firen­ze,' said Dum­ble­dore hap­pi­ly to a thun­der­struck Um­bridge. 'I think you'll find him suit­able.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 27 - The Centaur and the Sneak


Til bet you wish you hadn't giv­en up Div­ina­tion now, don't you, Hermione?' asked Par­vati, smirk­ing.

It was break­fast time, two days af­ter the sack­ing of Pro­fes­sor Trelawney, and Par­vati was curl­ing her eye­lash­es around her wand and ex­am­in­ing the ef­fect in the back of her spoon. They were to have their first les­son with Firen­ze that morn­ing.

'Not re­al­ly' said Hermione in­dif­fer­ent­ly, who was read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet. 'I've nev­er re­al­ly liked hors­es.'

She turned a page of the news­pa­per and scanned its columns.

'He's not a horse, he's a cen­taur!' said Laven­der, sound­ing shocked.

'A gor­geous cen­taur…' sighed Par­vati.

'Ei­ther way, he's still got four legs,' said Hermione cool­ly. 'Any­way I thought you two were all up­set that Trelawney had gone?'

'We are!' Laven­der as­sured her. 'We went up to her of­fice to see her; we took her some daf­fodils - not the honk­ing ones that Sprout's got, nice ones.'

'How is she?' asked Har­ry.

'Not very good, poor thing,' said Laven­der sym­pa­thet­ical­ly. 'She was cry­ing and say­ing she'd rather leave the cas­tle for ev­er than stay here where Um­bridge is, and I don't blame her, Um­bridge was hor­ri­ble to her, wasn't she?'

'I've got a feel­ing Um­bridge has on­ly just start­ed be­ing hor­ri­ble,' said Hermione dark­ly.

'Im­pos­si­ble,' said Ron, who was tuck­ing in­to a large plate of eggs and ba­con. 'She can't get any worse than she's been al­ready.'

'You mark my words, she's go­ing to want re­venge on Dum­ble­dore for ap­point­ing a new teach­er with­out con­sult­ing her,' said Hermione, clos­ing the news­pa­per. 'Es­pe­cial­ly an­oth­er part-​hu­man. You saw the look on her face when she saw Firen­ze.'

Af­ter break­fast Hermione de­part­ed for her Arith­man­cy class as Har­ry and Ron fol­lowed Par­vati and Laven­der in­to the En­trance Hall, head­ing for Div­ina­tion.

Aren't we go­ing up to North Tow­er?' asked Ron, look­ing puz­zled, as Par­vati by­passed the mar­ble stair­case.

Par­vati looked at him scorn­ful­ly over her shoul­der.

'How d'you ex­pect Firen­ze to climb that lad­der? We're in class­room eleven now, it was on the no­tice­board yes­ter­day.'

Class­room eleven was on the ground floor along the cor­ri­dor lead­ing off the En­trance Hall from the op­po­site side to the Great Hall. Har­ry knew it was one of those class­rooms that were nev­er used reg­ular­ly, and there­fore had the slight­ly ne­glect­ed feel­ing of a cup­board or store­room. When he en­tered it right be­hind Ron, and found him­self in the mid­dle of a for­est clear­ing, he was there­fore mo­men­tar­ily stunned.

'What the -?'

The class­room floor had be­come springi­ly mossy and trees were grow­ing out of it; their leafy branch­es fanned across the ceil­ing and win­dows, so that the room was full of slant­ing shafts of soft, dap­pled, green light. The stu­dents who had al­ready ar­rived were sit­ting on the earthy floor with their backs rest­ing against tree trunks or boul­ders, arms wrapped around their knees or fold­ed tight­ly across their chests, and all look­ing rather ner­vous. In the mid­dle of the clear­ing, where there were no trees, stood Firen­ze.

'Har­ry Pot­ter,' he said, hold­ing out a hand when Har­ry en­tered.

'Er - hi,' said Har­ry, shak­ing hands with the cen­taur, who sur­veyed him un­blink­ing­ly through those as­ton­ish­ing­ly blue eyes but did not smile. 'Er - good to see you.'

'And you,' said the cen­taur, in­clin­ing his white-​blond head. 'It was fore­told that we would meet again.'

Har­ry no­ticed there was the shad­ow of a hoof-​shaped bruise on Firen­ze's chest. As he turned to join the rest of the class on the ground, he saw they were all look­ing at him in awe, ap­par­ent­ly deeply im­pressed that he was on speak­ing terms with Firen­ze, whom they seemed to find in­tim­idat­ing.

When the door was closed and the last stu­dent had sat down on a tree stump be­side the wastepa­per bas­ket, Firen­ze ges­tured around the room.

'Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore has kind­ly ar­ranged this class­room for us,' said Firen­ze, when ev­ery­one had set­tled down, 'in im­ita­tion of my nat­ural habi­tat. I would have pre­ferred to teach you in the For­bid­den For­est, which was - un­til Mon­day - my home… but that is no longer pos­si­ble.'

'Please - er - sir -' said Par­vati breath­less­ly, rais­ing her hand, '- why not? We've been in there with Ha­grid, we're not fright­ened!'

'It is not a ques­tion of your brav­ery,' said Firen­ze, 'but of my po­si­tion. I can­not re­turn to the For­est. My herd has ban­ished me.'

'Herd?' said Laven­der in a con­fused voice, and Har­ry knew she was think­ing of cows. 'What - oh!'

Com­pre­hen­sion dawned on her face. 'There are more of youT she said, stunned.

'Did Ha­grid breed you, like the Thes­trals?' asked Dean ea­ger­ly.

Firen­ze turned his head very slow­ly to face Dean, who seemed to re­alise at once that he had said some­thing very of­fen­sive.

'I didn't - I meant - sor­ry' he fin­ished in a hushed voice.

'Cen­taurs are not the ser­vants or play­things of hu­mans,' said Firen­ze qui­et­ly. There was a pause, then Par­vati raised her hand again.

'Please, sir… why have the oth­er cen­taurs ban­ished you?'

'Be­cause I have agreed to work for Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore,' said Firen­ze. 'They see this as a be­tray­al of our kind.'

Har­ry re­mem­bered how, near­ly four years ago, the cen­taur Bane had shout­ed at Firen­ze for al­low­ing Har­ry to ride to safe­ty on his back; he had called him a 'com­mon mule'. He won­dered whether it had been Bane who had kicked Firen­ze in the chest.

'Let us be­gin,' said Firen­ze. He swished his long palomi­no tail, raised his hand to­wards the leafy canopy over­head, then low­ered it slow­ly, and as he did so, the light in the room dimmed, so that they now seemed to be sit­ting in a for­est clear­ing by twi­light, and stars ap­peared on the ceil­ing. There were oofis and gasps and Ron said au­di­bly, 'Blimey!'

'Lie back on the floor,' said Firen­ze in his calm voice, 'and ob­serve the heav­ens. Here is writ­ten, for those who can see, the for­tune of our races.'

Har­ry stretched out on his back and gazed up­wards at the ceil­ing. A twin­kling red star winked at him from over­head.

'I know that you have learned the names of the plan­ets and their moons in As­tron­omy,' said Firen­ze's calm voice, 'and that you have mapped the stars' progress through the heav­ens. Cen­taurs have un­rav­elled the mys­ter­ies of these move­ments over cen­turies. Our find­ings teach us that the fu­ture may be glimpsed in the sky above us -'

'Pro­fes­sor Trelawney did as­trol­ogy with us!' said Par­vati ex­cit­ed­ly, rais­ing her hand in front of her so that it stuck up in the air as she lay on her back. 'Mars caus­es ac­ci­dents and burns and things like that, and when it makes an an­gle to Sat­urn, like now -' she drew a right-​an­gle in the air above her '- that means peo­ple need to be ex­tra care­ful when han­dling hot things -'

That,' said Firen­ze calm­ly, 'is hu­man non­sense.'

Par­vati's hand fell limply to her side.

Triv­ial hurts, tiny hu­man ac­ci­dents,' said Firen­ze, as his hooves thud­ded over the mossy floor. These are of no more sig­nif­icance than the scur­ry­ings of ants to the wide uni­verse, and are un­af­fect­ed by plan­etary move­ments.'

'Pro­fes­sor Trelawney -' be­gan Par­vati, in a hurt and in­dig­nant voice.

'- is a hu­man,' said Firen­ze sim­ply. 'And is there­fore blink­ered and fet­tered by the lim­ita­tions of your kind.'

Har­ry turned his head very slight­ly to look at Par­vati. She looked very of­fend­ed, as did sev­er­al of the peo­ple sur­round­ing her.

'Sybill Trelawney may have Seen, I do not know,' con­tin­ued Firen­ze, and Har­ry heard the swish­ing of his tail again as he walked up and down be­fore them, 'but she wastes her time, in the main, on the self-​flat­ter­ing non­sense hu­mans call for­tune-​telling. I, how­ev­er, am here to ex­plain the wis­dom of cen­taurs, which is im­per­son­al and im­par­tial. We watch the skies for the great tides of evil or change that are some­times marked there. It may take ten years to be sure of what we are see­ing.'

Firen­ze point­ed to the red star di­rect­ly above Har­ry.

'In the past decade, the in­di­ca­tions have been that wiz­ard­kind is liv­ing through noth­ing more than a brief calm be­tween two wars. Mars, bringer of bat­tle, shines bright­ly above us, sug­gest­ing that the fight must soon break out again. How soon, cen­taurs may at­tempt to di­vine by the burn­ing of cer­tain herbs and leaves, by the ob­ser­va­tion of fume and flame…'

It was the most un­usu­al les­son Har­ry had ev­er at­tend­ed. They did in­deed burn sage and mal­lowsweet there on the class­room floor, and Firen­ze told them to look for cer­tain shapes and sym­bols in the pun­gent fumes, but he seemed per­fect­ly un­con­cerned that not one of them could see any of the signs he de­scribed, telling them that hu­mans were hard­ly ev­er good at this, that it took cen­taurs years and years to be­come com­pe­tent, and fin­ished by telling them that it was fool­ish to put too much faith in such things, any­way, be­cause even cen­taurs some­times read them wrong­ly. He was noth­ing like any hu­man teach­er Har­ry had ev­er had. His pri­or­ity did not seem to be to teach them what he knew, but rather to im­press up­on them that noth­ing, not even cen­taurs' knowl­edge, was fool­proof.

'He's not very def­inite on any­thing, is he?' said Ron in a low voice, as they put out their mal­lowsweet fire. 'I mean, I could do with a few more de­tails about this war we're about to have, couldn't you?'

The bell rang right out­side the class­room door and ev­ery­one jumped; Har­ry had com­plete­ly for­got­ten they were still in­side the cas­tle, and quite con­vinced that he was re­al­ly in the For­est. The class filed out, look­ing slight­ly per­plexed.

Har­ry and Ron were on the point of fol­low­ing them when Firen­ze called, 'Har­ry Pot­ter, a word, please.'

Har­ry turned. The cen­taur ad­vanced a lit­tle to­wards him. Ron hes­itat­ed.

'You may stay,' Firen­ze told him. 'But close the door, please.' • Ron has­tened to obey.

'Har­ry Pot­ter, you are a friend of Ha­grid's, are you not?' said the •cen­taur.

'Yes,' said Har­ry.

Then give him a warn­ing from me. His at­tempt is not work­ing. He would do bet­ter to aban­don it.'

'His at­tempt is not work­ing?' Har­ry re­peat­ed blankly.

'And he would do bet­ter to aban­don it,' said Firen­ze, nod­ding. 'I would warn Ha­grid my­self, but I am ban­ished - it would be un­wise for me to go too near the For­est now - Ha­grid has trou­bles enough, with­out a cen­taurs' bat­tle.'

'But - what's Ha­grid at­tempt­ing to do?' said Har­ry ner­vous­ly.

Firen­ze sur­veyed Har­ry im­pas­sive­ly.

'Ha­grid has re­cent­ly ren­dered me a great ser­vice,' said Firen­ze, 'and he has long since earned my re­spect for the care he shows all liv­ing crea­tures. I shall not be­tray his se­cret. But he must be brought to his sens­es. The at­tempt is not work­ing. Tell him, Har­ry Pot­ter. Good-​day to you.'

*

The hap­pi­ness Har­ry had felt in the af­ter­math of The Quib­bler in­ter­view had long since evap­orat­ed. As a dull March blurred in­to a squally April, his life seemed to have be­come one long se­ries of wor­ries and prob­lems again.

Um­bridge had con­tin­ued at­tend­ing all Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures lessons, so it had been very dif­fi­cult to de­liv­er Firen­zes warn­ing to Ha­grid. At last, Har­ry had man­aged it by pre­tend­ing he'd lost his copy of Fan­tas­tic Beasts and Where to Find Them, and dou­bling back af­ter class one day. When he'd re­peat­ed Firen­zes words, Ha­grid gazed at him for a mo­ment through his puffy, black­ened eyes, ap­par­ent­ly tak­en aback. Then he seemed to pull him­self to­geth­er.

'Nice bloke, Firen­ze,' he said gruffly, 'but he don' know what he's talkin' abou' on this. The at­temp's comin' on fine.'

'Ha­grid, what're you up to?' asked Har­ry se­ri­ous­ly. 'Be­cause you've got to be care­ful, Um­bridge has al­ready sacked Trelawney and, if you ask me, she's on a roll. If you're do­ing any­thing you shouldn't be, you'll be -'

There's things more im­por­tan' than keepin' a job,' said Ha­grid, though his hands shook slight­ly as he said this and a basin full of Knarl drop­pings crashed to the floor. 'Don' wor­ry abou' me, Har­ry jus' get along now, there's a good lad.'

Har­ry had no choice but to leave Ha­grid mop­ping up the dung all over his floor, but he felt thor­ough­ly dispir­it­ed as he trudged back up to the cas­tle.

Mean­while, as the teach­ers and Hermione per­sist­ed in re­mind­ing them, the OWLs were draw­ing ev­er near­er. All the fifth-​years were suf­fer­ing from stress to some de­gree, but Han­nah Ab­bott be­came the first to re­ceive a Calm­ing Draught from Madam Pom­frey af­ter she burst in­to tears dur­ing Her­bol­ogy and sobbed that she was too stupid to take ex­ams and want­ed to leave school now.

If it had not been for the DA lessons, Har­ry thought he would have been ex­treme­ly un­hap­py. He some­times felt he was liv­ing for the hours he spent in the Room of Re­quire­ment, work­ing hard but thor­ough­ly en­joy­ing him­self at the same time, swelling with pride as he looked around at his fel­low DA mem­bers and saw how far they had come. In­deed, Har­ry some­times won­dered how Um­bridge was go­ing to re­act when all the mem­bers of the DA re­ceived 'Out­stand­ing' in their De­fence Against the Dark Arts OWLs.

They had fi­nal­ly start­ed work on Pa­tronus­es, which ev­ery­body had been very keen to prac­tise, though, as Har­ry kept re­mind­ing them, pro­duc­ing a Pa­tronus in the mid­dle of a bright­ly lit class­room when they were not un­der threat was very dif­fer­ent from pro­duc­ing it when con­front­ed by some­thing like a De­men­tor.

'Oh, don't be such a killjoy,' said Cho bright­ly, watch­ing her sil­very swan-​shaped Pa­tronus soar around the Room of Re­quire­ment dur­ing their last les­son be­fore East­er. They're so pret­ty!'

They're not sup­posed to be pret­ty, they're sup­posed to pro­tect you,' said Har­ry pa­tient­ly. 'What we re­al­ly need is a Bog­gart or some­thing; that's how I learned, I had to con­jure a Pa­tronus while the Bog­gart was pre­tend­ing to be a De­men­tor -'

'But that would be re­al­ly scary!' said Laven­der, who was shoot­ing puffs of sil­ver vapour out of the end of her wand. 'And I still -can't - do it!' she added an­gri­ly.

Neville was hav­ing trou­ble, too. His face was screwed up in con­cen­tra­tion, but on­ly fee­ble wisps of sil­ver smoke is­sued from his wand tip.

'You've got to think of some­thing hap­py,' Har­ry re­mind­ed him.

'I'm try­ing,' said Neville mis­er­ably, who was try­ing so hard his round face was ac­tu­al­ly shin­ing with sweat.

'Har­ry, I think I'm do­ing it!' yelled Sea­mus, who had been brought along to his first ev­er DA meet­ing by Dean. 'Look - ah -it's gone… but it was def­inite­ly some­thing hairy, Har­ry!'

Hermione's Pa­tronus, a shin­ing sil­ver ot­ter, was gam­bolling around her.

They are sort of nice, aren't they?' she said, look­ing at it fond­ly.

The door of the Room of Re­quire­ment opened, and closed. Har­ry looked round to see who had en­tered, but there did not seem to be any­body there. It was a few mo­ments be­fore he re­alised that the peo­ple close to the door had fall­en silent. Next thing he knew, some­thing was tug­ging at his robes some­where near the knee. He looked down and saw, to his very great as­ton­ish­ment, Dob­by the house-​elf peer­ing up at him from be­neath his usu­al eight wool­ly hats.

'Hi, Dob­by!' he said. 'What are you - What's wrong?'

The elf's eyes were wide with ter­ror and he was shak­ing. The mem­bers of the DA clos­est to Har­ry had fall­en silent; ev­ery­body in the room was watch­ing Dob­by. The few Pa­tronus­es peo­ple had man­aged to con­jure fad­ed away in­to sil­ver mist, leav­ing the room look­ing much dark­er than be­fore.

'Har­ry Pot­ter, sir…' squeaked the elf, trem­bling from head to foot, 'Har­ry Pot­ter, sir… Dob­by has come to warn you… but the house-​elves have been warned not to tell…'

He ran head-​first at the wall. Har­ry, who had some ex­pe­ri­ence of­Dob­bys habits of self-​pun­ish­ment, made to seize him, but Dob­by mere­ly bounced off the stone, cush­ioned by his eight hats. Hermione and a few of the oth­er girls let out squeaks of fear and sym­pa­thy.

'What's hap­pened, Dob­by?' Har­ry asked, grab­bing the elf's tiny arm and hold­ing him away from any­thing with which he might seek to hurt him­self.

'Har­ry Pot­ter… she… she…"

Dob­by hit him­self hard on the nose with his free fist. Har­ry seized that, too.

'Who's “she”, Dob­by?'

But he thought he knew; sure­ly on­ly one 'she' could in­duce such fear in Dob­by? The elf looked up at him, slight­ly cross-​eyed, and mouthed word­less­ly.

'Um­bridge?' asked Har­ry, hor­ri­fied.

Dob­by nod­ded, then tried to bang his head on Har­ry's knees. Har­ry held him at arm's length.

'What about her? Dob­by - she hasn't found out about this -about us - about the DA?'

He read the an­swer in the elf's strick­en face. His hands held fast by Har­ry, the elf tried to kick him­self and fell to the floor.

'Is she com­ing?' Har­ry asked qui­et­ly.

Dob­by let out a howl, and be­gan beat­ing his bare feet hard on the floor.

'Yes, Har­ry Pot­ter, yes!'

Har­ry straight­ened up and looked around at the mo­tion­less, ter­ri­fied peo­ple gaz­ing at the thrash­ing elf.

'WHAT ARE YOU WAIT­ING FOR?' Har­ry bel­lowed. 'RUN!'

They all pelt­ed to­wards the ex­it at once, form­ing a scrum at the door, then peo­ple burst through. Har­ry could hear them sprint­ing along the cor­ri­dors and hoped they had the sense not to try and make it all the way to their dor­mi­to­ries. It was on­ly ten to nine; if they just took refuge in the li­brary or the Owlery, which were both near­er -

'Har­ry, come on!' shrieked Hermione from the cen­tre of the knot of peo­ple now fight­ing to get out.

He scooped up Dob­by, who was still at­tempt­ing to do him­self se­ri­ous in­jury, and ran with the elf in his arms to join the back of the queue.

'Dob­by - this is an or­der - get back down to the kitchen with the oth­er elves and, if she asks you whether you warned me, lie and say no!' said Har­ry. 'And I for­bid you to hurt your­self!' he added, drop­ping the elf as he made it over the thresh­old at last and slammed the door be­hind him.

Thank you, Har­ry Pot­ter!' squeaked Dob­by, and he streaked off. Har­ry glanced left and right, the oth­ers were all mov­ing so fast he caught on­ly glimpses of fly­ing heels at ei­ther end of the cor­ri­dor be­fore they van­ished; he start­ed to run right; there was a boys' bath­room up ahead, he could pre­tend he'd been in there all the time if he could just reach it -

'AAARGH!'

Some­thing caught him around the an­kles and he fell spec­tac­ular­ly, skid­ding along on his front for six feet be­fore com­ing to a halt. Some­one be­hind him was laugh­ing. He rolled over on to his back and saw Mal­foy con­cealed in a niche be­neath an ug­ly drag­on-​shaped vase.

Trip Jinx, Pot­ter!' he said. 'Hey Pro­fes­sor - PRO­FES­SOR! I've got one!'

Um­bridge came bustling round the far cor­ner, breath­less but wear­ing a de­light­ed smile.

'It's him!' she said ju­bi­lant­ly at the sight of Har­ry on the floor. 'Ex­cel­lent, Dra­co, ex­cel­lent, oh, very good - fifty points to Slytherin! I'll take him from here… stand up, Pot­ter!'

Har­ry got to his feet, glar­ing at the pair of them. He had nev­er seen Um­bridge look­ing so hap­py. She seized his arm in a vice-​like grip and turned, beam­ing broad­ly, to Mal­foy.

'You hop along and see if you can round up any more of them, Dra­co,' she said. Tell the oth­ers to look in the li­brary - any­body out of breath - check the bath­rooms, Miss Parkin­son can do the girls' ones - off you go - and you,' she added in her soft­est, most dan­ger­ous voice, as Mal­foy walked away, 'you can come with me to the Head­mas­ters of­fice, Pot­ter.'

They were at the stone gar­goyle with­in min­utes. Har­ry won­dered how many of the oth­ers had been caught. He thought of Ron - Mrs. Weasley would kill him - and of how Hermione would feel if she was ex­pelled be­fore she could take her OWLs. And it had been Sea­mus's very first meet­ing… and Neville had been get­ting so good…

'Fizzing Whizzbee,' sang Um­bridge; the stone gar­goyle jumped aside, the wall be­hind split open, and they as­cend­ed the mov­ing stone stair­case. They reached the pol­ished door with the grif­fin knock­er, but Um­bridge did not both­er to knock, she strode straight in­side, still hold­ing tight to Har­ry.

The of­fice was full of peo­ple. Dum­ble­dore was sit­ting be­hind his desk, his ex­pres­sion serene, the tips of his long fin­gers to­geth­er. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stood rigid­ly be­side him, her face ex­treme­ly tense. Cor­nelius Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, was rock­ing back­wards and for­wards on his toes be­side the fire, ap­par­ent­ly im­mense­ly pleased with the sit­ua­tion; Kmgs­ley Shack­le­bolt and a tough-​look­ing wiz­ard with very short wiry hair whom Har­ry did not recog­nise, were po­si­tioned ei­ther side of the door like guards, and the freck­led, be­spec­ta­cled form of Per­cy Weasley hov­ered ex­cit­ed­ly be­side the wall, a quill and a heavy scroll of parch­ment in his hands, ap­par­ent­ly poised to take notes.

The por­traits of old head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es were not sham­ming sleep tonight. All of them were alert and se­ri­ous, watch­ing what was hap­pen­ing be­low them. As Har­ry en­tered, a few flit­ted in­to neigh­bour­ing frames and whis­pered ur­gent­ly in­to their neigh­bour's ear.

Har­ry pulled him­self free of Um­bridge's grasp as the door swung shut be­hind them. Cor­nelius Fudge was glar­ing at him with a kind of vi­cious sat­is­fac­tion on his face.

'Well,' he said. 'Well, well, well…"

Har­ry replied with the dirt­iest look he could muster. His heart drummed mad­ly in­side him, but his brain was odd­ly cool and clear.

'He was head­ing back to Gryffind­or Tow­er,' said Um­bridge. There was an in­de­cent ex­cite­ment in her voice, the same cal­lous plea­sure Har­ry had heard as she watched Pro­fes­sor Trelawney dis­solv­ing with mis­ery in the En­trance Hall. The Mal­foy boy cor­nered him.'

'Did he, did he?' said Fudge ap­pre­cia­tive­ly. 'I must re­mem­ber to tell Lu­cius. Well, Pot­ter… I ex­pect you know why you are here?'

Har­ry ful­ly in­tend­ed to re­spond with a de­fi­ant 'yes': his mouth had opened and the word was half-​formed when he caught sight of Dum­ble­dore's face. Dum­ble­dore was not look­ing di­rect­ly at Har­ry - his eyes were fixed on a point just over his shoul­der - but as Har­ry stared at him, he shook his head a frac­tion of an inch to each side.

Har­ry changed di­rec­tion mid-​word.

'Ye—no.'

'I beg your par­don?' said Fudge.

'No,' said Har­ry, firm­ly.

'You don't know why you are here?'

'No, I don't,' said Har­ry.

Fudge looked in­cred­ulous­ly from Har­ry to Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Har­ry took ad­van­tage of his mo­men­tary inat­ten­tion to steal an­oth­er quick look at Dum­ble­dore, who gave the car­pet the tini­est of nods and the shad­ow of a wink.

'So you have no idea,' said Fudge, in a voice pos­itive­ly sag­ging with sar­casm, 'why Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge has brought you to this of­fice? You are not aware that you have bro­ken any school rules?'

'School rules?' said Har­ry. 'No.'

'Or Min­istry De­crees?' amend­ed Fudge an­gri­ly.

'Not that I'm aware of,' said Har­ry bland­ly.

His heart was still ham­mer­ing very fast. It was al­most worth telling these lies to watch Fudges blood pres­sure ris­ing, but he could not see how on earth he would get away with them; if some­body had tipped off Um­bridge about the DA then he, the lead­er, might as well be pack­ing his trunk right now.

'So, it's news to you, is it,' said Fudge, his voice now thick with anger, 'that an il­le­gal stu­dent or­gan­isa­tion has been dis­cov­ered with­in this school?'

'Yes, it is,' said Har­ry, hoist­ing an un­con­vinc­ing look of in­no­cent sur­prise on to his face.

'I think, Min­is­ter,' said Um­bridge silk­ily from be­side him, 'we might make bet­ter progress if I fetch our in­for­mant.'

'Yes, yes, do,' said Fudge, nod­ding, and he glanced ma­li­cious­ly at Dum­ble­dore as Um­bridge left the room. There's noth­ing like a good wit­ness, is there, Dum­ble­dore?'

'Noth­ing at all, Cor­nelius,' said Dum­ble­dore grave­ly, in­clin­ing his head.

There was a wait of sev­er­al min­utes, in which no­body looked at each oth­er, then Har­ry heard the door open be­hind him. Um­bridge moved past him in­to the room, grip­ping by the shoul­der Cho's curly-​haired friend, Ma­ri­et­ta, who was hid­ing her face in her hands.

'Don't be scared, dear, don't be fright­ened,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge soft­ly, pat­ting her on the back, 'it's quite all right, now. You have done the right thing. The Min­is­ter is very pleased with you. He'll be telling your moth­er what a good girl you've been.

Ma­ri­et­ta's moth­er, Min­is­ter,' she added, look­ing up at Fudge, 'is Madam Edge­combe from the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Trans­porta­tion, Floo Net­work of­fice - she's been help­ing us po­lice the Hog­warts fires, you know.'

'Jol­ly good, jol­ly good!' said Fudge hearti­ly. 'Like moth­er, like daugh­ter, eh? Well, come on, now, dear, look up, don't be shy, let's hear what you've got to - gal­lop­ing gar­goyles!'

As Ma­ri­et­ta raised her head, Fudge leapt back­wards in shock, near­ly land­ing him­self in the fire. He cursed, and stamped on the hem of his cloak which had start­ed to smoke. Ma­ri­et­ta gave a wail and pulled the neck of her robes right up to her eyes, but not be­fore ev­ery­one had seen that her face was hor­ri­bly dis­fig­ured by a se­ries of close-​set pur­ple pus­tules that had spread across her nose and cheeks to form the word 'SNEAK'.

'Nev­er mind the spots now, dear,' said Um­bridge im­pa­tient­ly, 'just take your robes away from your mouth and tell the Min­is­ter -'

But Ma­ri­et­ta gave an­oth­er muf­fled wail and shook her head fran­ti­cal­ly.

'Oh, very well, you sil­ly girl, I'll tell him,' snapped Um­bridge. She hitched her sick­ly smile back on to her face and said, 'Well, Min­is­ter, Miss Edge­combe here came to my of­fice short­ly af­ter din­ner this evening and told me she had some­thing she want­ed to tell me. She said that if I pro­ceed­ed to a se­cret room on the sev­enth floor, some­times known as the Room of Re­quire­ment, I would find out some­thing to my ad­van­tage. I ques­tioned her a lit­tle fur­ther and she ad­mit­ted that there was to be some kind of meet­ing there. Un­for­tu­nate­ly, at that point this hex,' she waved im­pa­tient­ly at Ma­ri­et­ta's con­cealed face, 'came in­to op­er­ation and up­on catch­ing sight of her face in my mir­ror the girl be­came too dis­tressed to tell me any more.'

'Well, now,' said Fudge, fix­ing Ma­ri­et­ta with what he ev­ident­ly imag­ined was a kind and fa­ther­ly look, 'it is very brave of you, my dear, com­ing to tell Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. You did ex­act­ly the right thing. Now, will you tell me what hap­pened at this meet­ing? What was its pur­pose? Who was there?'

But Ma­ri­et­ta would not speak; she mere­ly shook her head again, her eyes wide and fear­ful.

'Haven't we got a counter-​jinx for this?' Fudge asked Um­bridge im­pa­tient­ly, ges­tur­ing at Ma­ri­et­ta's face. 'So she can speak freely?'

'I have not yet man­aged to find one,' Um­bridge ad­mit­ted grudg­ing­ly, and Har­ry felt a surge of pride in Hermione's jinx­ing abil­ity. 'But it doesn't mat­ter if she won't speak, I can take up the sto­ry from here.

'You will re­mem­ber, Min­is­ter, that I sent you a re­port back in Oc­to­ber that Pot­ter had met a num­ber of fel­low stu­dents in the Hog's Head in Hogsmeade -'

'And what is your ev­idence for that?' cut in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'I have tes­ti­mo­ny from Willy Wid­der­shins, Min­er­va, who hap­pened to be in the bar at the time. He was heav­ily ban­daged, it is true, but his hear­ing was quite unim­paired,' said Um­bridge smug­ly. 'He heard ev­ery word Pot­ter said and has­tened straight to the school to re­port to me -'

'Oh, so that's why he wasn't pros­ecut­ed for set­ting up all those re­gur­gi­tat­ing toi­lets!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, rais­ing her eye­brows. 'What an in­ter­est­ing in­sight in­to our jus­tice sys­tem!'

'Bla­tant cor­rup­tion!' roared the por­trait of the cor­pu­lent, red-​nosed wiz­ard on the wall be­hind Dum­ble­dore's desk. The Min­istry did not cut deals with pet­ty crim­inals in my day, no sir, they did not!'

Thank you, Fortes­cue, that will do,' said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly.

The pur­pose of Pot­ter's meet­ing with these stu­dents,' con­tin­ued Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, 'was to per­suade them to join an il­le­gal so­ci­ety, whose aim was to learn spells and curs­es the Min­istry has de­cid­ed are in­ap­pro­pri­ate for school-​age -'

'I think you'll find you're wrong there, Do­lores,' said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly, peer­ing at her over the half-​moon spec­ta­cles perched halfway down his crooked nose.

Har­ry stared at him. He could not see how Dum­ble­dore was go­ing to talk him out of this one; if Willy Wid­der­shins had in­deed heard ev­ery word he had said in the Hog's Head there was sim­ply no es­cap­ing it.

'Oho!' said Fudge, bounc­ing up and down on the balls of his feet again. 'Yes, do let's hear the lat­est cock-​and-​bull sto­ry de­signed to pull Pot­ter out of trou­ble! Go on, then, Dum­ble­dore, go on -

Willy Wid­der­shins was ly­ing, was he? Or was it Pot­ters iden­ti­cal twin in the Hog's Head that day? Or is there the usu­al sim­ple ex­pla­na­tion in­volv­ing a re­ver­sal of time, a dead man com­ing back to life and a cou­ple of in­vis­ible De­men­tors?'

Per­cy Weasley let out a hearty laugh.

'Oh, very good, Min­is­ter, very good!'

Har­ry could have kicked him. Then he saw, to his as­ton­ish­ment, that Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing gen­tly, too.

'Cor­nelius, I do not de­ny - and nor, I am sure, does Har­ry - -that he was in the Hog's Head that day, nor that he was try­ing to re­cruit stu­dents to a De­fence Against the Dark Arts group. I am mere­ly point­ing out that Do­lores is quite wrong to sug­gest that such a group was, at that time, il­le­gal. If you re­mem­ber, the Min­istry De­cree ban­ning all stu­dent so­ci­eties was not put in­to ef­fect un­til two days af­ter Har­rys Hogsmeade meet­ing, so he was not break­ing any rules at all in the Hog's Head.'

Per­cy looked as though he had been struck in the face by some­thing very heavy. Fudge re­mained mo­tion­less in mid-​bounce, his mouth hang­ing open.

Um­bridge re­cov­ered first. :

'That's all very fine, Head­mas­ter,' she said, smil­ing sweet­ly, 'but we are now near­ly six months on from the in­tro­duc­tion of Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​four. If the first meet­ing was not il­le­gal, all those that have hap­pened since most cer­tain­ly are.'

'Well,' said Dum­ble­dore, sur­vey­ing her with po­lite in­ter­est over the top of his in­ter­locked fin­gers, 'they cer­tain­ly would be, if they had con­tin­ued af­ter the De­cree came in­to ef­fect. Do you have any ev­idence that any such meet­ings con­tin­ued?'

As Dum­ble­dore spoke, Har­ry heard a rus­tle be­hind him and rather thought Kings­ley whis­pered some­thing. He could have sworn, too, that he felt some­thing brush against his side, a gen­tle some­thing like a draught or bird wings, but look­ing down he saw noth­ing there.

'Ev­idence?' re­peat­ed Um­bridge, with that hor­ri­ble wide toad-​like smile. 'Have you not been lis­ten­ing, Dum­ble­dore? Why do you think Miss Edge­combe is here?'

'Oh, can she tell us about six months' worth of meet­ings?' said

Dum­ble­dore, rais­ing his eye­brows. 'I was un­der the im­pres­sion that she was mere­ly re­port­ing a meet­ing tonight.'

'Miss Edge­combe,' said Um­bridge at once, 'tell us how long these meet­ings have been go­ing on, dear. You can sim­ply nod or shake your head, I'm sure that won't make the spots worse. Have they been hap­pen­ing reg­ular­ly over the last six months?'

Har­ry felt a hor­ri­ble plum­met­ing in his stom­ach. This was it, they had hit a dead end of sol­id ev­idence that not even Dum­ble­dore would be able to shift aside.

'Just nod or shake your head, dear,' Um­bridge said coax­ing­ly to Ma­ri­et­ta, 'come on, now, that won't re-​ac­ti­vate the jinx.'

Ev­ery­one in the room was gaz­ing at the top of Ma­ri­et­ta's face. On­ly her eyes were vis­ible be­tween the pulled-​up robes and her curly fringe. Per­haps it was a trick of the fire­light, but her eyes looked odd­ly blank. And then - to Har­ry's ut­ter amaze­ment -Ma­ri­et­ta shook her head.

Um­bridge looked quick­ly at Fudge, then back at Ma­ri­et­ta.

'I don't think you un­der­stood the ques­tion, did you, dear? I'm ask­ing whether you've been go­ing to these meet­ings for the past six months? You have, haven't you?'

Again, Ma­ri­et­ta shook her head.

'What do you mean by shak­ing your head, dear?' said Um­bridge in a testy voice.

'I would have thought her mean­ing was quite clear,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall harsh­ly, 'there have been no se­cret meet­ings for the past six months. Is that cor­rect, Miss Edge­combe?'

Ma­ri­et­ta nod­ded.

'But there was a meet­ing tonight!' said Um­bridge fu­ri­ous­ly. 'There was a meet­ing, Miss Edge­combe, you told me about it, in the Room of Re­quire­ment! And Pot­ter was the lead­er, was he not, Pot­ter or­gan­ised it, Pot­ter - why are you shak­ing your head, girl?'

'Well, usu­al­ly when a per­son shakes their head,' said McG­ona­gall cold­ly, 'they mean “no”. So un­less Miss Edge­combe is us­ing a form of sign-​lan­guage as yet un­known to hu­mans -'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge seized Ma­ri­et­ta, pulled her round to face her and be­gan shak­ing her very hard. A split sec­ond lat­er Dum­ble­dore was on his feet, his wand raised; Kings­ley start­ed for­wards and

Um­bridge leapt back from Ma­ri­et­ta, wav­ing her hands in the air as though they had been burned.

'I can­not al­low you to man­han­dle my stu­dents, Do­lores,' said Dum­ble­dore and, for the first time, he looked an­gry.

'You want to calm your­self, Madam Um­bridge,' said Kings­ley, in his deep, slow voice. 'You don't want to get your­self in­to trou­ble, now.'

'No,' said Um­bridge breath­less­ly, glanc­ing up at the tow­er­ing fig­ure of Kings­ley. 'I mean, yes - you're right, Shack­le­bolt - I - I for­got my­self.'

Ma­ri­et­ta was stand­ing ex­act­ly where Um­bridge had re­leased her. She seemed nei­ther per­turbed by Um­bridge's sud­den at­tack, nor re­lieved by her re­lease; she was still clutch­ing her robe up to her odd­ly blank eyes and star­ing straight ahead of her.

A sud­den sus­pi­cion, con­nect­ed to Kings­ley's whis­per and the thing he had felt shoot past him, sprang in­to Har­ry's mind.

'Do­lores,' said Fudge, with the air of try­ing to set­tle some­thing once and for all, 'the meet­ing tonight - the one we know def­inite­ly hap­pened -'

'Yes,' said Um­bridge, pulling her­self to­geth­er, 'yes… well, Miss Edge­combe tipped me off and I pro­ceed­ed at once to the sev­enth floor, ac­com­pa­nied by cer­tain trust­wor­thy stu­dents, so as to catch those in the meet­ing red-​hand­ed. It ap­pears that they were fore­warned of my ar­rival, how­ev­er, be­cause when we reached the sev­enth floor they were run­ning in ev­ery di­rec­tion. It does not mat­ter, how­ev­er. I have all their names here, Miss Parkin­son ran in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment for me to see if they had left any­thing be­hind. We need­ed ev­idence and the room pro­vid­ed.'

And to Har­ry's hor­ror, she with­drew from her pock­et the list of names that had been pinned up­on the Room of Re­quire­ment's wall and hand­ed it to Fudge.

The mo­ment I saw Pot­ter's name on the list, I knew what we were deal­ing with,' she said soft­ly.

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Fudge, a smile spread­ing across his face, 'ex­cel­lent, Do­lores. And… by thun­der…'

He looked up at Dum­ble­dore, who was still stand­ing be­side Ma­ri­et­ta, his wand held loose­ly in his hand.

'See what they've named them­selves?' said Fudge qui­et­ly. 'Dum­ble­dore's Army.'

Dum­ble­dore reached out and took the piece of parch­ment from Fudge. He gazed at the head­ing scrib­bled by Hermione months be­fore and for a mo­ment seemed un­able to speak. Then he looked up, smil­ing.

'Well, the game is up,' he said sim­ply. 'Would you like a writ­ten con­fes­sion from me, Cor­nelius - or will a state­ment be­fore these wit­ness­es suf­fice?'

Har­ry saw McG­ona­gall and Kings­ley look at each oth­er. There was fear in both faces. He did not un­der­stand what was go­ing on, and nor, ap­par­ent­ly, did Fudge.

'State­ment?' said Fudge slow­ly. 'What - I don't -?'

'Dum­ble­dore's Army, Cor­nelius,' said Dum­ble­dore, still smil­ing as he waved the list of names be­fore Fudge's face. 'Not Pot­ter's Army. Dum­ble­dore's Army.'

'But - but -'

Un­der­stand­ing blazed sud­den­ly in Fudges face. He took a hor­ri­fied step back­wards, yelped, and jumped out of the fire again.

'You?' he whis­pered, stamp­ing again on his smoul­der­ing cloak.

That's right,' said Dum­ble­dore pleas­ant­ly.

'You or­gan­ised this?'

'I did,' said Dum­ble­dore.

'You re­cruit­ed these stu­dents for - for your army?'

Tonight was sup­posed to be the first meet­ing,' said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding. 'Mere­ly to see whether they would be in­ter­est­ed in join­ing me. I see now that it was a mis­take to in­vite Miss Edge­combe, of course.'

Ma­ri­et­ta nod­ded. Fudge looked from her to Dum­ble­dore, his chest swelling.

Then you have been plot­ting against me!' he yelled.

That's right,' said Dum­ble­dore cheer­ful­ly.

'NO!' shout­ed Har­ry.

Kings­ley flashed a look of warn­ing at him, McG­ona­gall widened her eyes threat­en­ing­ly, but it had sud­den­ly dawned on Har­ry what Dum­ble­dore was about to do, and he could not let it hap­pen.

'No — Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore -!'

'Be qui­et, Har­ry, or I am afraid you will have to leave my of­fice,' said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

'Yes, shut up, Pot­ter!' barked Fudge, who was still ogling Dum­ble­dore with a kind of hor­ri­fied de­light. 'Well, well, well - I came here tonight ex­pect­ing to ex­pel Pot­ter and in­stead -'

'In­stead you get to ar­rest me,' said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. 'It's like los­ing a Knut and find­ing a Galleon, isn't it?'

'Weasley!' cried Fudge, now pos­itive­ly quiv­er­ing with de­light, 'Weasley, have you writ­ten it all down, ev­ery­thing he's said, his con­fes­sion, have you got it?'

'Yes, sir, I think so, sir!' said Per­cy ea­ger­ly, whose nose was splat­tered with ink from the speed of his note-​tak­ing.

The bit about how he's been try­ing to build up an army against the Min­istry, how he's been work­ing to desta­bilise me?'

'Yes, sir, I've got it, yes!' said Per­cy, scan­ning his notes joy­ful­ly.

'Very well, then,' said Fudge, now ra­di­ant with glee, 'du­pli­cate your notes, Weasley, and send a copy to the Dai­ly Prophet at once. If we send a fast owl we should make the morn­ing edi­tion!' Per­cy dashed from the room, slam­ming the door be­hind him, and Fudge turned back to Dum­ble­dore. 'You will now be es­cort­ed back to the Min­istry, where you will be for­mal­ly charged, then sent to Azk­aban to await tri­al!'

'Ah,' said Dum­ble­dore gen­tly, 'yes. Yes, I thought we might hit that lit­tle snag.'

'Snag?' said Fudge, his voice still vi­brat­ing with joy. 'I see no snag, Dum­ble­dore!'

'Well,' said Dum­ble­dore apolo­get­ical­ly, 'I'm afraid I do.'

'Oh, re­al­ly?'

'Well - it's just that you seem to be labour­ing un­der the delu­sion that I am go­ing to - what is the phrase? - come qui­et­ly. I am afraid I am not go­ing to come qui­et­ly at all, Cor­nelius. I have ab­so­lute­ly no in­ten­tion of be­ing sent to Azk­aban. I could break out, of course - but what a waste of time, and frankly, I can think of a whole host of things I would rather be do­ing.'

Um­bridge's face was grow­ing steadi­ly red­der; she looked as though she was be­ing filled with boil­ing wa­ter. Fudge stared at Dum­ble­dore with a very sil­ly ex­pres­sion on his face, as though he

I

had just been stunned by a sud­den blow and could not quite be­lieve it had hap­pened. He made a small chok­ing noise, then looked round at Kings­ley and the man with short grey hair, who alone of ev­ery­one in the room had re­mained en­tire­ly silent so far. The lat­ter gave Fudge a re­as­sur­ing nod and moved for­wards a lit­tle, away from the wall. Har­ry saw his hand drift, al­most ca­su­al­ly, to­wards his pock­et.

'Don't be sil­ly, Dawlish,' said Dum­ble­dore kind­ly. 'I'm sure you are an ex­cel­lent Au­ror - I seem to re­mem­ber that you achieved “Out­stand­ing” in all your NEWTs — but if you at­tempt to — er — bring me in by force, I will have to hurt you.'

The man called Dawlish blinked rather fool­ish­ly. He looked to­wards Fudge again, but this time seemed to be hop­ing for a clue as to what to do next.

'So,' sneered Fudge, re­cov­er­ing him­self, 'you in­tend to take on Dawlish, Shack­le­bolt, Do­lores and my­self sin­gle-​hand­ed, do you, Dum­ble­dore?'

'Mer­lin's beard, no,' said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing, 'not un­less you are fool­ish enough to force me to.'

'He will not be sin­gle-​hand­ed!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall loud­ly, plung­ing her hand in­side her robes.

'Oh yes he will, Min­er­va!' said Dum­ble­dore sharply. 'Hog­warts needs you!'

'Enough of this rub­bish!' said Fudge, pulling out his own wand. 'Dawlish! Shack­le­bolt! Take him!'

A streak of sil­ver light flashed around the room; there was a bang like a gun­shot and the floor trem­bled; a hand grabbed the scruff of Har­ry's neck and forced him down on the floor as a sec­ond sil­ver flash went off; sev­er­al of the por­traits yelled, Fawkes screeched and a cloud of dust filled the air. Cough­ing in the dust, Har­ry saw a dark fig­ure fall to the ground with a crash in front of him; there was a shriek and a thud and some­body cried, 'No!'; then there was the sound of break­ing glass, fran­ti­cal­ly scuf­fling foot­steps, a groan… and si­lence.

Har­ry strug­gled around to see who was half-​stran­gling him and saw Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall crouched be­side him; she had forced both him and Ma­ri­et­ta out of harm's way. Dust was still float­ing gen­tly down through the air on to them. Pant­ing slight­ly, Har­ry saw a very tall fig­ure mov­ing to­wards them.

'Are you all right?' Dum­ble­dore asked.

'Yes!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, get­ting up and drag­ging Har­ry and Ma­ri­et­ta with her.

The dust was clear­ing. The wreck­age of the of­fice loomed in­to view: Dum­ble­dore's desk had been over­turned, all of the spindly ta­bles had been knocked to the floor, their sil­ver in­stru­ments in pieces. Fudge, Um­bridge, Kings­ley and Dawlish lay mo­tion­less on the floor. Fawkes the phoenix soared in wide cir­cles above them, singing soft­ly.

'Un­for­tu­nate­ly, I had to hex Kings­ley too, or it would have looked very sus­pi­cious,' said Dum­ble­dore in a low voice. 'He was re­mark­ably quick on the up­take, mod­ify­ing Miss Edge­combe's mem­ory like that while ev­ery­one was look­ing the oth­er way - thank him, for me, won't you, Min­er­va?

'Now, they will all awake very soon and it will be best if they do not know that we had time to com­mu­ni­cate - you must act as though no time has passed, as though they were mere­ly knocked to the ground, they will not re­mem­ber -'

'Where will you go, Dum­ble­dore?' whis­pered Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. 'Grim­mauld Place?'

'Oh no,' said Dum­ble­dore, with a grim smile, 'I am not leav­ing to go in­to hid­ing. Fudge will soon wish he'd nev­er dis­lodged me from Hog­warts, I promise you.'

'Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore…' Har­ry be­gan.

He did not know what to say first: how sor­ry he was that he had start­ed the DA in the first place and caused all this trou­ble, or how ter­ri­ble he felt that Dum­ble­dore was leav­ing to save him from ex­pul­sion? But Dum­ble­dore cut him off be­fore he could say an­oth­er word.

'Lis­ten to me, Har­ry,' he said ur­gent­ly. 'You must study Oc­clu­men­cy as hard as you can, do you un­der­stand me? Do ev­ery­thing Pro­fes­sor Snape tells you and prac­tise it par­tic­ular­ly ev­ery night be­fore sleep­ing so that you can close your mind to bad dreams - you will un­der­stand why soon enough, but you must promise me -'

The man called Dawlish was stir­ring. Dum­ble­dore seized Har­ry's wrist.

'Re­mem­ber - close your mind -'

But as Dum­ble­dore's fin­gers closed over Har­rys skin, a pain shot through the scar on his fore­head and he felt again that ter­ri­ble, snake­like long­ing to strike Dum­ble­dore, to bite him, to hurt him -

'- you will un­der­stand,' whis­pered Dum­ble­dore.

Fawkes cir­cled the of­fice and swooped low over him. Dum­ble­dore re­leased Har­ry, raised his hand and grasped the phoenix's long gold­en tail. There was a flash of fire and the pair of them were gone.

'Where is he?' yelled Fudge, push­ing him­self up from the floor. 'Where is he?'

'I don't know!' shout­ed Kings­ley, al­so leap­ing to his feet.

'Well, he can't have Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed!' cried Um­bridge. 'You can't do it from in­side this school -'

'The stairs!' cried Dawlish, and he flung him­self up­on the door, wrenched it open and dis­ap­peared, fol­lowed close­ly by Kings­ley and Um­bridge. Fudge hes­itat­ed, then got slow­ly to his feet, brush­ing dust from his front. There was a long and painful si­lence.

'Well, Min­er­va,' said Fudge nas­ti­ly, straight­en­ing his torn shirt­sleeve, 'I'm afraid this is the end of your friend Dum­ble­dore.'

'You think so, do you?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall scorn­ful­ly.

Fudge seemed not to hear her. He was look­ing around at the wrecked of­fice. A few of the por­traits hissed at him; one or two even made rude hand ges­tures.

'You'd bet­ter get those two off to bed,' said Fudge, look­ing back at Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall with a dis­mis­sive nod to­wards Har­ry and Ma­ri­et­ta.

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said noth­ing, but marched Har­ry and Ma­ri­et­ta to the door. As it swung closed be­hind them, Har­ry heard Phineas Nigel­lus's voice.

'You know, Min­is­ter, I dis­agree with Dum­ble­dore on many counts… but you can­not de­ny he's got style…'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 28 - Snape's Worst Memory


BY OR­DER OF THE MIN­ISTRY OF MAG­IC

Do­lores Jane Um­bridge (High In­quisi­tor) has re­placed

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore as Head of Hog­warts School of

Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry.

The above is in ac­cor­dance with Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​eight.

Signed: Cor­nelius Os­wald Fudge, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic

The no­tices had gone up all around the school overnight, but they did not ex­plain how ev­ery sin­gle per­son with­in the cas­tle seemed to know that Dum­ble­dore had over­come two Au­rors, the High In­quisi­tor, the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic and his Ju­nior As­sis­tant to es­cape. No mat­ter where Har­ry went with­in the cas­tle, the sole top­ic of con­ver­sa­tion was Dum­ble­dore's flight, and though some of the de­tails may have gone awry in the retelling (Har­ry over­heard one sec­ond-​year girl as­sur­ing an­oth­er that Fudge was now ly­ing in St Mun­go's with a pump­kin for a head) it was sur­pris­ing how ac­cu­rate the rest of their in­for­ma­tion was. Ev­ery­body knew, for in­stance, that Har­ry and Ma­ri­et­ta were the on­ly stu­dents to have wit­nessed the scene in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice and, as Ma­ri­et­ta was now in the hos­pi­tal wing, Har­ry found him­self be­sieged with re­quests to give a first-​hand ac­count.

'Dum­ble­dore will be back be­fore long,' said Ernie Macmil­lan con­fi­dent­ly on the way back from Her­bol­ogy, af­ter lis­ten­ing in­tent­ly to Har­ry's sto­ry. They couldn't keep him away in our sec­ond year and they won't be able to this time. The Fat Fri­ar told me -' he dropped his voice con­spir­ato­ri­al­ly, so that Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had to lean clos­er to him to hear '- that Um­bridge tried to get back in­to his of­fice last night af­ter they'd searched the cas­tle and grounds for him. Couldn't get past the gar­goyle. The Head's of­fice has sealed it­self against her.' Ernie smirked. 'Ap­par­ent­ly, she had a right lit­tle tantrum.'

'Oh, I ex­pect she re­al­ly fan­cied her­self sit­ting up there in the Heads of­fice,' said Hermione vi­cious­ly, as they walked up the stone steps in­to the En­trance Hall. 'Lord­ing it over all the oth­er teach­ers, the stupid puffed-​up, pow­er-​crazy old -'

'Now, do you re­al­ly want to fin­ish that sen­tence, Granger?'

Dra­co Mal­foy had slid out from be­hind the door, close­ly fol­lowed by Crabbe and Goyle. His pale, point­ed face was alight with mal­ice.

'Afraid I'm go­ing to have to dock a few points from Gryffind­or and Huf­flepuff,' he drawled.

'It's on­ly teach­ers who can dock points from hous­es, Mal­foy,' said Ernie at once.

'Yeah, we're pre­fects, too, re­mem­ber?' snarled Ron.

'I know pre­fects can't dock points, Weasel King,' sneered Mal­foy. Crabbe and Goyle snig­gered. 'But mem­bers of the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad -'

The whatT said Hermione sharply.

The In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad, Granger,' said Mal­foy, point­ing to­wards a tiny sil­ver 'I on his robes just be­neath his pre­fect's badge. 'A se­lect group of stu­dents who are sup­port­ive of the Min­istry of Mag­ic, hand-​picked by Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. Any­way, mem­bers of the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad do have the pow­er to dock points… so, Granger, I'll have five from you for be­ing rude about our new Head­mistress. Macmil­lan, five for con­tra­dict­ing me. Five be­cause I don't like you, Pot­ter. Weasley, your shirts un­tucked, so I'll have an­oth­er five for that. Oh yeah, I for­got, you're a Mud­blood, Granger, so ten off for that.'

Ron pulled out his wand, but Hermione pushed it away, whis­per­ing, 'Don't!'

'Wise move, Granger,' breathed Mal­foy. 'New Head, new times

… be good now, Pot­ty… Weasel King…'

Laugh­ing hearti­ly, he strode away with Crabbe and Goyle.

'He was bluff­ing,' said Ernie, look­ing ap­palled. 'He can't be al­lowed to dock points… that would be ridicu­lous… it would com­plete­ly un­der­mine the pre­fect sys­tem.'

But Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had turned au­to­mat­ical­ly to­wards the gi­ant hour-​glass­es set in nich­es along the wall be­hind them, which record­ed the house-​points. Gryffind­or and Raven­claw had been neck and neck in the lead that morn­ing. Even as they watched, stones flew up­wards, re­duc­ing the amounts in the low­er bulbs. In fact, the on­ly glass that seemed un­changed was the emer­ald-​filled one of Slytherin.

'No­ticed, have you?' said Fred's voice.

He and George had just come down the mar­ble stair­case and joined Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Ernie in front of the hour-​glass­es.

'Mal­foy just docked us all about fifty points,' said Har­ry fu­ri­ous­ly, as they watched sev­er­al more stones fly up­wards from the Gryffind­or hour-​glass.

'Yeah, Mon­tague tried to do us dur­ing break,' said George.

'What do you mean, “tried”?' said Ron quick­ly.

'He nev­er man­aged to get all the words out,' said Fred, 'due to the fact that we forced him head-​first in­to that Van­ish­ing Cab­inet on the first floor.'

Hermione looked very shocked.

'But you'll get in­to ter­ri­ble trou­ble!'

'Not un­til Mon­tague reap­pears, and that could take weeks, I dun­no where we sent him,' said Fred cool­ly. 'Any­way… we've de­cid­ed we don't care about get­ting in­to trou­ble any more.'

'Have you ev­er?' asked Hermione.

'Course we have,' said George. 'Nev­er been ex­pelled, have we?'

'We've al­ways known where to draw the line,' said Fred.

'We might have put a toe across it oc­ca­sion­al­ly,' said George.

'But we've al­ways stopped short of caus­ing re­al may­hem,' said Fred.

'But now?' said Ron ten­ta­tive­ly.

'Well, now -' said George.

'- what with Dum­ble­dore gone -' said Fred.

'- we reck­on a bit of may­hem —' said George.

'— is ex­act­ly what our dear new Head de­serves,' said Fred.

'You mustn't!' whis­pered Hermione. 'You re­al­ly mustn't! She'd love a rea­son to ex­pel you!'

'You don't get it, Hermione, do you?' said Fred, smil­ing at her. 'We don't care about stay­ing any more. We'd walk out right now if we weren't de­ter­mined to do our bit for Dum­ble­dore first. So, any­way,' he checked his watch, 'phase one is about to be­gin. I'd get in the Great Hall for lunch, if I were you, that way the teach­ers will see you can't have had any­thing to do with it.'

'Any­thing to do with what?' said Hermione anx­ious­ly.

'You'll see,' said George. 'Run along, now.'

Fred and George turned away and dis­ap­peared in­to the swelling crowd de­scend­ing the stairs to­wards lunch. Look­ing high­ly dis­con­cert­ed, Ernie mut­tered some­thing about un­fin­ished Trans­fig­ura­tion home­work and scur­ried away.

'I think we should get out of here, you know,' said Hermione ner­vous­ly. 'Just in case

'Yeah, all right,' said Ron, and the three of them moved to­wards the doors to the Great Hall, but Har­ry had bare­ly glimpsed the day's ceil­ing of scud­ding white clouds when some­body tapped him on the shoul­der and, turn­ing, he found him­self al­most nose-​to-​nose with Filch the care­tak­er. He took sev­er­al hasty steps back­wards; Filch was best viewed at a dis­tance.

The Head­mistress would like to see you, Pot­ter,' he leered.

'I didn't do it,' said Har­ry stupid­ly, think­ing of what­ev­er Fred and George were plan­ning. Filch's jowls wob­bled with silent laugh­ter.

'Guilty con­science, eh?' he wheezed. 'Fol­low me.'

Har­ry glanced back at Ron and Hermione, who were both look­ing wor­ried. He shrugged, and fol­lowed Filch back in­to the En­trance Hall, against the tide of hun­gry stu­dents.

Filch seemed to be in an ex­treme­ly good mood; he hummed creak­ily un­der his breath as they climbed the mar­ble stair­case. As they reached the first land­ing he said, Things are chang­ing around here, Pot­ter.'

'I've no­ticed,' said Har­ry cold­ly.

'Yerse… I've been telling Dum­ble­dore for years and years he's too soft with you all,' said Filch, chuck­ling nas­ti­ly. 'You filthy lit­tle beasts would nev­er have dropped Stink Pel­lets if you'd known I had it in my pow­er to whip you raw, would you, now? No­body would have thought of throw­ing Fanged Fris­bees down the cor­ri­dors if I could've strung you up by the an­kles in my of­fice, would they? But when Ed­uca­tion­al De­cree Num­ber Twen­ty-​nine comes in, Pot­ter, I'll be al­lowed to do them things… and she's asked the Min­is­ter to sign an or­der for the ex­pul­sion of Peeves… oh, things are go­ing to be very dif­fer­ent around here with her in charge

Um­bridge had ob­vi­ous­ly gone to some lengths to get Filch on her side, Har­ry thought, and the worst of it was that he would prob­ably prove an im­por­tant weapon; his knowl­edge of the school's se­cret pas­sage­ways and hid­ing places was prob­ably sec­ond on­ly to that of the Weasley twins.

'Here we are,' he said, leer­ing down at Har­ry as he rapped three times on Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's door and pushed it open. The Pot­ter boy to see you, Ma'am.'

Um­bridge's of­fice, so very fa­mil­iar to Har­ry from his many de­ten­tions, was the same as usu­al ex­cept for the large wood­en block ly­ing across the front of her desk on which gold­en let­ters spelled the word: HEAD­MISTRESS. Al­so, his Fire­bolt and Fred and George's Clean­sweeps, which he saw with a pang, were chained and pad­locked to a stout iron peg in the wall be­hind the desk.

Um­bridge was sit­ting be­hind the desk, busi­ly scrib­bling on some of her pink parch­ment, but she looked up and smiled wide­ly at their en­trance.

Thank you, Ar­gus,' she said sweet­ly.

'Not at all, Ma'am, not at all,' said Filch, bow­ing as low as his rheuma­tism would per­mit, and ex­it­ing back­wards.

'Sit,' said Um­bridge curt­ly, point­ing to­wards a chair. Har­ry sat. She con­tin­ued to scrib­ble for a few mo­ments. He watched some of the foul kit­tens gam­bolling around the plates over her head, won­der­ing what fresh hor­ror she had in store for him.

'Well, now,' she said fi­nal­ly, set­ting down her quill and sur­vey­ing him com­pla­cent­ly, like a toad about to swal­low a par­tic­ular­ly juicy fly. 'What would you like to drink?'

'What?' said Har­ry, quite sure he had mis­heard her.

To drink, Mr Pot­ter,' she said, smil­ing still more wide­ly. Tea? Cof­fee? Pump­kin juice?'

As she named each drink, she gave her short wand a wave, and a cup or glass of it ap­peared on her desk.

'Noth­ing, thank you,' said Har­ry.

'I wish you to have a drink with me,' she said, her voice be­com­ing dan­ger­ous­ly sweet. 'Choose one.'

'Fine… tea then,' said Har­ry, shrug­ging.

She got up and made quite a per­for­mance of adding milk with her back to him. She then bus­tled around the desk with it, smil­ing in a sin­is­ter­ly sweet fash­ion.

There,' she said, hand­ing it to him. 'Drink it be­fore it gets cold, won't you? Well, now, Mr Pot­ter… I thought we ought to have a lit­tle chat, af­ter the dis­tress­ing events of last night.'

He said noth­ing. She set­tled her­self back in­to her seat and wait­ed. When sev­er­al long mo­ments had passed in si­lence, she said gai­ly, 'You're not drink­ing up!'

He raised the cup to his lips and then, just as sud­den­ly, low­ered it. One of the hor­ri­ble paint­ed kit­tens be­hind Um­bridge had great round blue eyes just like Mad-​Eye Moody's mag­ical one and it had just oc­curred to Har­ry what Mad-​Eye would say if he ev­er heard that Har­ry had drunk any­thing of­fered by a known en­emy.

'What's the mat­ter?' said Um­bridge, who was still watch­ing him close­ly. 'Do you want sug­ar?'

'No,' said Har­ry.

He raised the cup to his lips again and pre­tend­ed to take a sip, though keep­ing his mouth tight­ly closed. Um­bridge's smile widened.

'Good,' she whis­pered. 'Very good. Now then…' She leaned for­wards a lit­tle. 'Where is Al­bus Dum­ble­dore?'

'No idea,' said Har­ry prompt­ly.

'Drink up, drink up,' she said, still smil­ing. 'Now, Mr Pot­ter, let us not play child­ish games. I know that you know where he has gone. You and Dum­ble­dore have been in this to­geth­er from the be­gin­ning. Con­sid­er your po­si­tion, Mr Pot­ter…'

'I don't know where he is,' Har­ry re­peat­ed.

He pre­tend­ed to drink again. She was watch­ing him very close­ly.

'Very well,' she said, though she looked dis­pleased. 'In that case, you will kind­ly tell me the where­abouts of Sir­ius Black.'

Har­ry's stom­ach turned over and his hand hold­ing the teacup shook so that it rat­tled in its saucer. He tilt­ed the cup to his mouth with his lips pressed to­geth­er, so that some of the hot liq­uid trick­led down on to his robes.

'I don't know,' he said, a lit­tle too quick­ly.

'Mr Pot­ter,' said Um­bridge, 'let me re­mind you that it was I who al­most caught the crim­inal Black in the Gryffind­or fire in Oc­to­ber. I know per­fect­ly well it was you he was meet­ing and if I had had any proof nei­ther of you would be at large to­day, I promise you. I re­peat, Mr Pot­ter… where is Sir­ius Black?'

'No idea,' said Har­ry loud­ly. 'Haven't got a clue.'

They stared at each oth­er so long that Har­ry felt his eyes wa­ter­ing. Then Um­bridge stood up.

'Very well, Pot­ter, I will take your word for it this time, but be warned: the might of the Min­istry stands be­hind me. All chan­nels of com­mu­ni­ca­tion in and out of this school are be­ing mon­itored. A Floo Net­work Reg­ula­tor is keep­ing watch over ev­ery fire in Hog­warts - ex­cept my own, of course. My In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad is open­ing and read­ing all owl post en­ter­ing and leav­ing the cas­tle. And Mr Filch is ob­serv­ing all se­cret pas­sages in and out of the cas­tle. If I find a shred of ev­idence…'

BOOM!

The very floor of the of­fice shook. Um­bridge slipped side­ways, clutch­ing her desk for sup­port, and look­ing shocked.

'What was -?'

She was gaz­ing to­wards the door. Har­ry took the op­por­tu­ni­ty to emp­ty his al­most-​full cup of tea in­to the near­est vase of dried flow­ers. He could hear peo­ple run­ning and scream­ing sev­er­al floors be­low.

'Back to lunch you go, Pot­ter!' cried Um­bridge, rais­ing her wand and dash­ing out of the of­fice. Har­ry gave her a few sec­onds' start, then hur­ried af­ter her to see what the source of all the up­roar was.

It was not dif­fi­cult to find. One floor down, pan­de­mo­ni­um reigned. Some­body (and Har­ry had a very shrewd idea who) had set off what seemed to be an enor­mous crate of en­chant­ed fire­works.

Drag­ons com­prised en­tire­ly of green and gold sparks were soar­ing up and down the cor­ri­dors, emit­ting loud fiery blasts and bangs as they went; shock­ing-​pink Cather­ine wheels five feet in di­am­eter were whizzing lethal­ly through the air like so many fly­ing saucers; rock­ets with long tails of bril­liant sil­ver stars were ric­ochet­ing off the walls; sparklers were writ­ing swear words in midair of their own ac­cord; fire­crack­ers were ex­plod­ing like mines ev­ery­where Har­ry looked, and in­stead of burn­ing them­selves out, fad­ing from sight or fiz­zling to a halt, these py­rotech­ni­cal mir­acles seemed to be gain­ing in en­er­gy and mo­men­tum the longer he watched.

Filch and Um­bridge were stand­ing, ap­par­ent­ly trans­fixed in hor­ror, halfway down the stairs. As Har­ry watched, one of the larg­er Cather­ine wheels seemed to de­cide that what it need­ed was more room to ma­noeu­vre; it whirled to­wards Um­bridge and Filch with a sin­is­ter 'wheeeeeeeeee'. They both yelled with fright and ducked, and it soared straight out of the win­dow be­hind them and off across the grounds. Mean­while, sev­er­al of the drag­ons and a large pur­ple bat that was smok­ing omi­nous­ly took ad­van­tage of the open door at the end of the cor­ri­dor to es­cape to­wards the sec­ond floor.

'Hur­ry, Filch, hur­ry!' shrieked Um­bridge, 'they'll be all over the school un­less we do some­thing - Stu­pe­fy]'

A jet of red light shot out of the end of her wand and hit one of the rock­ets. In­stead of freez­ing in midair, it ex­plod­ed with such force that it blast­ed a hole in a paint­ing of a sop­py-​look­ing witch in the mid­dle of a mead­ow; she ran for it just in time, reap­pear­ing sec­onds lat­er squashed in­to the next paint­ing, where a cou­ple of wiz­ards play­ing cards stood up hasti­ly to make room for her.

'Don't Stun them, Filch!' shout­ed Um­bridge an­gri­ly, for all the world as though it had been his in­can­ta­tion.

'Right you are, Head­mistress!' wheezed Filch, who as a Squib could no more have Stunned the fire­works than swal­lowed them. He dashed to a near­by cup­board, pulled out a broom and be­gan swat­ting at the fire­works in midair; with­in sec­onds the head of the broom was ablaze.

Har­ry had seen enough; laugh­ing, he ducked down low, ran to a door he knew was con­cealed be­hind a tapestry a lit­tle way along the cor­ri­dor and slipped through it to find Fred and George hid­ing just be­hind it, lis­ten­ing to Um­bridge and Filch's yells and quak­ing with sup­pressed mirth.

'Im­pres­sive,' Har­ry said qui­et­ly, grin­ning. 'Very im­pres­sive… you'll put Dr Fil­ibuster out of busi­ness, no prob­lem…'

'Cheers,' whis­pered George, wip­ing tears of laugh­ter from his face. 'Oh, I hope she tries Van­ish­ing them next… they mul­ti­ply by ten ev­ery time you try.'

The fire­works con­tin­ued to burn and to spread all over the school that af­ter­noon. Though they caused plen­ty of dis­rup­tion, par­tic­ular­ly the fire­crack­ers, the oth­er teach­ers didn't seem to mind them very much.

'Dear, dear,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sar­don­ical­ly, as one of the drag­ons soared around her class­room, emit­ting loud bangs and ex­hal­ing flame. 'Miss Brown, would you mind run­ning along to the Head­mistress and in­form­ing her that we have an es­caped fire­work in our class­room?'

The up­shot of it all was that Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge spent her first af­ter­noon as Head­mistress run­ning all over the school an­swer­ing the sum­mons­es of the oth­er teach­ers, none of whom seemed able to rid their rooms of the fire­works with­out her. When the fi­nal bell rang and they were head­ing back to Gryffind­or Tow­er with their bags, Har­ry saw, with im­mense sat­is­fac­tion, a di­shev­elled and soot-​black­ened Um­bridge tot­ter­ing sweaty-​faced from Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's class­room.

Thank you so much, Pro­fes­sor!' said Pro­fes­sor Flitwick in his squeaky lit­tle voice. 'I could have got rid of the sparklers my­self, of course, but I wasn't sure whether or not I had the au­thor­ity.'

Beam­ing, he closed his class­room door in her snarling face.

Fred and George were heroes that night in the Gryffind­or com­mon room. Even Hermione fought her way through the ex­cit­ed crowd to con­grat­ulate them.

They were won­der­ful fire­works,' she said ad­mir­ing­ly.

Thanks,' said George, look­ing both sur­prised and pleased. 'Weasleys' Wild­fire Whiz-​bangs. On­ly thing is, we used our whole stock; we're go­ing to have to start again from scratch now.'

'It was worth it, though,' said Fred, who was tak­ing or­ders from clam­our­ing Gryffind­ors. 'If you want to add your name to the wait­ing list, Hermione, it's five Galleons for your Ba­sic Blaze box and twen­ty for the De­fla­gra­tion Deluxe…'

Hermione re­turned to the ta­ble where Har­ry and Ron were sit­ting star­ing at their school­bags as though hop­ing their home­work would spring out and start do­ing it­self.

'Oh, why don't we have a night off?' said Hermione bright­ly, as a sil­ver-​tailed Weasley rock­et zoomed past the win­dow. 'Af­ter all, the East­er hol­idays start on Fri­day, we'll have plen­ty of time then.'

'Are you feel­ing all right?' Ron asked, star­ing at her in dis­be­lief.

'Now you men­tion it,' said Hermione hap­pi­ly,'d'you know… I think I'm feel­ing a bit… re­bel­lious.'

Har­ry could still hear the dis­tant bangs of es­caped fire­crack­ers when he and Ron went up to bed an hour lat­er; and as he got un­dressed a sparkler float­ed past the tow­er, still res­olute­ly spelling out the word TOO'.

He got in­to bed, yawn­ing. With his glass­es off, the oc­ca­sion­al fire­work pass­ing the win­dow had be­come blurred, look­ing like sparkling clouds, beau­ti­ful and mys­te­ri­ous against the black sky. He turned on to his side, won­der­ing how Um­bridge was feel­ing about her first day in Dum­ble­dore's job, and how Fudge would re­act when he heard that the school had spent most of the day in a state of ad­vanced dis­rup­tion. Smil­ing to him­self, Har­ry closed his eyes…

The whizzes and bangs of es­caped fire­works in the grounds seemed to be grow­ing more dis­tant… or per­haps he was sim­ply speed­ing away from them…

He had fall­en right in­to the cor­ri­dor lead­ing to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies. He was speed­ing to­wards the plain black door… let it open… let it open…

It did. He was in­side the cir­cu­lar room lined with doors… he crossed it, placed his hand on an iden­ti­cal door and it swung in­wards…

Now he was in a long, rect­an­gu­lar room full of an odd me­chan­ical click­ing. There were danc­ing flecks of light on the walls but he did not pause to in­ves­ti­gate… he had to go on…

There was a door at the far end… it, too, opened at his touch…

And now he was in a dim­ly lit room as high and wide as a church, full of noth­ing but rows and rows of tow­er­ing shelves, each laden with small, dusty, spun-​glass spheres… now Har­rys heart was beat­ing fast with ex­cite­ment… he knew where to go… he ran for­wards, but his foot­steps made no noise in the enor­mous, de­sert­ed room…

There was some­thing in this room he want­ed very, very much…

Some­thing he want­ed… or some­body else want­ed…

His scar was hurt­ing…

BANG!

Har­ry awoke in­stant­ly, con­fused and an­gry. The dark dor­mi­to­ry was full of the sound of laugh­ter.

'Cool!' said Sea­mus, who was sil­hou­et­ted against the win­dow. 'I think one of those Cather­ine wheels hit a rock­et and it's like they mat­ed, come and see!'

Har­ry heard Ron and Dean scram­ble out of bed for a bet­ter look. He lay quite still and silent while the pain in his scar sub­sid­ed and dis­ap­point­ment washed over him. He felt as though a won­der­ful treat had been snatched from him at the very last mo­ment… he had got so close that time.

Glit­ter­ing pink and sil­ver winged piglets were now soar­ing past the win­dows of Gryffind­or Tow­er. Har­ry lay and lis­tened to the ap­pre­cia­tive whoops of Gryffind­ors in the dor­mi­to­ries be­low them. His stom­ach gave a sick­en­ing jolt as he re­mem­bered that he had Oc­clu­men­cy the fol­low­ing evening.

*

Har­ry spent the whole of the next day dread­ing what Snape was go­ing to say if he found out how much fur­ther in­to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies Har­ry had pen­etrat­ed dur­ing his last dream. With a surge of guilt he re­alised that he had not prac­tised Oc­clu­men­cy once since their last les­son: there had been too much go­ing on since Dum­ble­dore had left; he was sure he would not have been able to emp­ty his mind even if he had tried. He doubt­ed, how­ev­er, whether Snape would ac­cept that ex­cuse.

He at­tempt­ed a lit­tle last-​minute prac­tice dur­ing class­es that day, but it was no good. Hermione kept ask­ing him what was wrong when­ev­er he fell silent try­ing to rid him­self of all thought and emo­tion and, af­ter all, the best mo­ment to emp­ty his brain was not while teach­ers were fir­ing re­vi­sion ques­tions at the class.

Re­signed to the worst, he set off for Snape's of­fice af­ter din­ner. Halfway across the En­trance Hall, how­ev­er, Cho came hur­ry­ing up to him.

'Over here,' said Har­ry, glad of a rea­son to post­pone his meet­ing with Snape, and beck­on­ing her across to the cor­ner of the En­trance Hall where the gi­ant hour-​glass­es stood. Gryffind­or's was now al­most emp­ty. 'Are you OK? Um­bridge hasn't been ask­ing you about the DA, has she?'

'Oh, no,' said Cho hur­ried­ly. 'No, it was on­ly… well, I just want­ed to say… Har­ry, I nev­er dreamed Ma­ri­et­ta would tell…'

'Yeah, well,' said Har­ry mood­ily. He did feel Cho might have cho­sen her friends a bit more care­ful­ly; it was small con­so­la­tion that the last he had heard, Ma­ri­et­ta was still up in the hos­pi­tal wing and Madam Pom­frey had not been able to make the slight­est im­prove­ment to her pim­ples.

'She's a love­ly per­son re­al­ly,' said Cho. 'She just made a mis­take -'

Har­ry looked at her in­cred­ulous­ly.

'A love­ly per­son who made a mis­take? She sold us all out, in­clud­ing you!'

'Well… we all got away, didn't we?' said Cho plead­ing­ly. 'You know, her mum works for the Min­istry, it's re­al­ly dif­fi­cult for her -'

'Ron's dad works for the Min­istry too!' Har­ry said fu­ri­ous­ly. 'And in case you hadn't no­ticed, he hasn't got sneak writ­ten across his face -'

That was a re­al­ly hor­ri­ble trick of Hermione Granger's,' said Cho fierce­ly. 'She should have told us she'd jinxed that list -'

'I think it was a bril­liant idea,' said Har­ry cold­ly. Cho flushed and her eyes grew brighter.

'Oh yes, I for­got - of course, if it was dar­ling Hermione's idea -'

'Don't start cry­ing again,' said Har­ry warn­ing­ly.

'I wasn't go­ing to!' she shout­ed.

'Yeah… well… good,' he said. I've got enough to cope with at the mo­ment.'

'Go and cope with it then!' Cho said fu­ri­ous­ly, turn­ing on her heel and stalk­ing off.

Fum­ing, Har­ry de­scend­ed the stairs to Snape's dun­geon and, though he knew from ex­pe­ri­ence how much eas­ier it would be for Snape to pen­etrate his mind if he ar­rived an­gry and re­sent­ful, he suc­ceed­ed in noth­ing but think­ing of a few more things he should have said to Cho about Ma­ri­et­ta be­fore reach­ing the dun­geon door.

'You're late, Pot­ter,' said Snape cold­ly, as Har­ry closed the door be­hind him.

Snape was stand­ing with his back to Har­ry, re­mov­ing, as usu­al, cer­tain of his thoughts and plac­ing them care­ful­ly in Dum­ble­dores Pen­sieve. He dropped the last sil­very strand in­to the stone basin and turned to face Har­ry.

'So,' he said. 'Have you been prac­tis­ing?'

'Yes,' Har­ry lied, look­ing care­ful­ly at one of the legs of Snape's desk.

'Well, we'll soon find out, won't we?' said Snape smooth­ly. 'Wand out, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry moved in­to his usu­al po­si­tion, fac­ing Snape with the desk be­tween them. His heart was pump­ing fast with anger at Cho and anx­iety about how much Snape was about to ex­tract from his mind.

'On the count of three then,' said Snape lazi­ly. 'One - two -'

Snape's of­fice door banged open and Dra­co Mal­foy sped in.

'Pro­fes­sor Snape, sir - oh - sor­ry -'

Mal­foy was look­ing at Snape and Har­ry in some sur­prise.

'It's all right, Dra­co,' said Snape, low­er­ing his wand. 'Pot­ter is here for a lit­tle re­me­di­al Po­tions.'

Har­ry had not seen Mal­foy look so glee­ful since Um­bridge had turned up to in­spect Ha­grid.

'I didn't know,' he said, leer­ing at Har­ry, who knew his face was burn­ing. He would have giv­en a great deal to be able to shout the truth at Mal­foy - or, even bet­ter, to hit him with a good curse.

'Well, Dra­co, what is it?' asked Snape.

'It's Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, sir - she needs your help,' said Mal­foy.

They've found Mon­tague, sir, he's turned up jammed in­side a toi­let on the fourth floor.'

'How did he get in there?' de­mand­ed Snape.

'I don't know, sir, he's a bit con­fused.'

'Very well, very well. Pot­ter,' said Snape, 'we shall re­sume this les­son to­mor­row evening.'

He turned and swept from his of­fice. Mal­foy mouthed, 'Re­me­di­al Po­tions?' at Har­ry be­hind Snape's back be­fore fol­low­ing him.

Seething, Har­ry re­placed his wand in­side his robes and made to leave the room. At least he had twen­ty-​four more hours in which to prac­tise; he knew he ought to feel grate­ful for the nar­row es­cape, though it was hard that it came at the ex­pense of Mal­foy telling the whole school that he need­ed re­me­di­al Po­tions.

He was at the of­fice door when he saw it: a patch of shiv­er­ing light danc­ing on the door­frame. He stopped, and stood look­ing at it, re­mind­ed of some­thing… then he re­mem­bered: it was a lit­tle like the lights he had seen in his dream last night, the lights in the sec­ond room he had walked through on his jour­ney through the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies.

He turned around. The light was com­ing from the Pen­sieve sit­ting on Snape's desk. The sil­ver-​white con­tents were ebbing and swirling with­in. Snape's thoughts… things he did not want Har­ry to see if he broke through Snape's de­fences ac­ci­den­tal­ly…

Har­ry gazed at the Pen­sieve, cu­rios­ity welling in­side him… what was it that Snape was so keen to hide from Har­ry?

The sil­very lights shiv­ered on the wall… Har­ry took two steps to­wards the desk, think­ing hard. Could it pos­si­bly be in­for­ma­tion about the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies that Snape was de­ter­mined to keep from him?

Har­ry looked over his shoul­der, his heart now pump­ing hard­er and faster than ev­er. How long would it take Snape to re­lease Mon­tague from the toi­let? Would he come straight back to his of­fice af­ter­wards, or ac­com­pa­ny Mon­tague to the hos­pi­tal wing? Sure­ly the lat­ter… Mon­tague was Cap­tain of the Slytherin Quid­ditch team, Snape would want to make sure he was all right.

Har­ry walked the re­main­ing few feet to the Pen­sieve and stood over it, gaz­ing in­to its depths. He hes­itat­ed, lis­ten­ing, then pulled out his wand again. The of­fice and the cor­ri­dor be­yond were com­plete­ly silent. He gave the con­tents of the Pen­sieve a small prod with the end of his wand.

The sil­very stuff with­in be­gan to swirl very fast. Har­ry leaned for­wards over it and saw that it had be­come trans­par­ent. He was, once again, look­ing down in­to a room as though through a cir­cu­lar win­dow in the ceil­ing… in fact, un­less he was much mis­tak­en, he was look­ing down in­to the Great Hall.

His breath was ac­tu­al­ly fog­ging the sur­face of Snape's thoughts… his brain seemed to be in lim­bo… it would be in­sane to do the thing he was so strong­ly tempt­ed to do… he was trem­bling… Snape could be back at any mo­ment… but Har­ry thought of Chos anger, of Mal­foy's jeer­ing face, and a reck­less dar­ing seized him.

He took a great gulp of breath, and plunged his face in­to the sur­face of Snape's thoughts. At once, the floor of the of­fice lurched, tip­ping Har­ry head-​first in­to the Pen­sieve…

He was falling through cold black­ness, spin­ning fu­ri­ous­ly as he went, and then -

He was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the Great Hall, but the four house ta­bles were gone. In­stead, there were more than a hun­dred small­er ta­bles, all fac­ing the same way, at each of which sat a stu­dent, head bent low, scrib­bling on a roll of parch­ment. The on­ly sound was the scratch­ing of quills and the oc­ca­sion­al rus­tle as some­body ad­just­ed their parch­ment. It was clear­ly ex­am time.

Sun­shine was stream­ing through the high win­dows on to the bent heads, which shone chest­nut and cop­per and gold in the bright light. Har­ry looked around care­ful­ly. Snape had to be here some­where… this was his mem­ory…

And there he was, at a ta­ble right be­hind Har­ry. Har­ry stared. Snape-​the-​teenag­er had a stringy, pal­lid look about him, like a plant kept in the dark. His hair was lank and greasy and was flop­ping on to the ta­ble, his hooked nose bare­ly half an inch from the sur­face of the parch­ment as he scrib­bled. Har­ry moved around be­hind Snape and read the head­ing of the ex­am­ina­tion pa­per: DE­FENCE AGAINST THE DARK ARTS - OR­DI­NARY WIZ­ARD­ING LEV­EL.

So Snape had to be fif­teen or six­teen, around Har­ry's own age. His hand was fly­ing across the parch­ment; he had writ­ten at least a foot more than his clos­est neigh­bours, and yet his writ­ing was mi­nus­cule and cramped.

'Five more min­utes!'

The voice made Har­ry jump. Turn­ing, he saw the top of Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's head mov­ing be­tween the desks a short dis­tance away. Pro­fes­sor Flitwick was walk­ing past a boy with un­tidy black hair… very un­tidy black hair…

Har­ry moved so quick­ly that, had he been sol­id, he would have knocked desks fly­ing. In­stead he seemed to slide, dream­like, across two aisles and up a third. The back of the black-​haired boy's head drew near­er and… he was straight­en­ing up now, putting down his quill, pulling his roll of parch­ment to­wards him so as to reread what he had writ­ten…

Har­ry stopped in front of the desk and gazed down at his fif­teen-​year-​old fa­ther.

Ex­cite­ment ex­plod­ed in the pit of his stom­ach: it was as though he was look­ing at him­self but with de­lib­er­ate mis­takes. James's eyes were hazel, his nose was slight­ly longer than Har­ry's and there was no scar on his fore­head, but they had the same thin face, same mouth, same eye­brows; James's hair stuck up at the back ex­act­ly as Har­ry's did, his hands could have been Har­ry's and Har­ry could tell that, when James stood up, they would be with­in an inch of each oth­er in height.

James yawned huge­ly and rum­pled up his hair, mak­ing it even messier than it had been. Then, with a glance to­wards Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, he turned in his seat and grinned at a boy sit­ting four seats be­hind him.

With an­oth­er shock of ex­cite­ment, Har­ry saw Sir­ius give James the thumbs-​up. Sir­ius was. loung­ing in his chair at his ease, tilt­ing it back on two legs. He was very good-​look­ing; his dark hair fell in­to his eyes with a sort of ca­su­al el­egance nei­ther James's nor Har­ry's could ev­er have achieved, and a girl sit­ting be­hind him was eye­ing him hope­ful­ly, though he didn't seem to have no­ticed. And two seats along from this girl - Har­ry's stom­ach gave an­oth­er plea­sur­able squirm - was Re­mus Lupin. He looked rather pale and peaky (was the full moon ap­proach­ing?) and was ab­sorbed in the ex­am: as he reread his an­swers, he scratched his chin with the end of his quill, frown­ing slight­ly.

So that meant Worm­tail had to be around here some­where, too… and sure enough, Har­ry spot­ted him with­in sec­onds: a small, mousy-​haired boy with a point­ed nose. Worm­tail looked anx­ious; he was chew­ing his fin­ger­nails, star­ing down at his pa­per, scuff­ing the ground with his toes. Ev­ery now and then he glanced hope­ful­ly at his neigh­bours pa­per. Har­ry stared at Worm­tail for a mo­ment, then back at James, who was now doo­dling on a bit of scrap parch­ment. He had drawn a Snitch and was now trac­ing the let­ters 'L.E.'. What did they stand for?

'Quills down, please!' squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick. That means you too, Steb­bins! Please re­main seat­ed while I col­lect your parch­ment! Ac­cio!'

Over a hun­dred rolls of parch­ment zoomed in­to the air and in­to Pro­fes­sor Flitwick's out­stretched arms, knock­ing him back­wards off his feet. Sev­er­al peo­ple laughed. A cou­ple of stu­dents at the front desks got up, took hold of Pro­fes­sor Flitwick be­neath the el­bows and lift­ed him back on to his feet.

Thank you… thank you,' pant­ed Pro­fes­sor Flitwick. 'Very well, ev­ery­body, you're free to go!'

Har­ry looked down at his fa­ther, who had hasti­ly crossed out the 'L.E.' he had been em­bel­lish­ing, jumped to his feet, stuffed his quill and the ex­am pa­per in­to his bag, which he slung over his back, and stood wait­ing for Sir­ius to join him.

Har­ry looked around and glimpsed Snape a short way away, mov­ing be­tween the ta­bles to­wards the doors to the En­trance Hall, still ab­sorbed in his own ex­am pa­per. Round-​shoul­dered yet an­gu­lar, he walked in a twitchy man­ner that re­called a spi­der, and his oily hair was jump­ing about his face.

A gang of chat­ter­ing girls sep­arat­ed Snape from James, Sir­ius and Lupin, and by plant­ing him­self in their midst, Har­ry man­aged to keep Snape in sight while strain­ing his ears to catch the voic­es of James and his friends.

'Did you like ques­tion ten, Moony?' asked Sir­ius as they emerged in­to the En­trance Hall.

'Loved it,' said Lupin briskly. 'Give five signs that iden­ti­fy the were­wolf. Ex­cel­lent ques­tion.'

'D'you think you man­aged to get all the signs?' said James in tones of mock con­cern.

Think I did,' said Lupin se­ri­ous­ly, as they joined the crowd throng­ing around the front doors ea­ger to get out in­to the sun­lit grounds. 'One: he's sit­ting on my chair. Two: he's wear­ing my clothes. Three: his name's Re­mus Lupin.'

Worm­tail was the on­ly one who didn't laugh.

'I got the snout shape, the pupils of the eyes and the tuft­ed tail,' he said anx­ious­ly, 'but I couldn't think what else -'

'How thick are you, Worm­tail?' said James im­pa­tient­ly. 'You run round with a were­wolf once a month -'

'Keep your voice down,' im­plored Lupin.

Har­ry looked anx­ious­ly be­hind him again. Snape re­mained close by, still buried in his ex­am ques­tions - but this was Snape's mem­ory and Har­ry was sure that if Snape chose to wan­der off in a dif­fer­ent di­rec­tion once out­side in the grounds, he, Har­ry, would not be able to fol­low James any fur­ther. To his in­tense re­lief, how­ev­er, when James and his three friends strode off down the lawn to­wards the lake, Snape fol­lowed, still por­ing over the ex­am pa­per and ap­par­ent­ly with no fixed idea of where he was go­ing. By keep­ing a lit­tle ahead of him, Har­ry man­aged to main­tain a close watch on James and the oth­ers.

'Well, I thought that pa­per was a piece of cake,' he heard Sir­ius say. Til be sur­prised if I don't get “Out­stand­ing” on it at least.'

'Me too,' said James. He put his hand in his pock­et and took out a strug­gling Gold­en Snitch.

'Where'd you get that?'

'Nicked it,' said James ca­su­al­ly. He start­ed play­ing with the Snitch, al­low­ing it to fly as much as a foot away be­fore seiz­ing it again; his re­flex­es were ex­cel­lent. Worm­tail watched him in awe.

They stopped in the shade of the very same beech tree on the edge of the lake where Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had once spent a Sun­day fin­ish­ing their home­work, and threw them­selves down on the grass. Har­ry looked over his shoul­der yet again and saw, to his de­light, that Snape had set­tled him­self on the grass in the dense shad­ow of a clump of bush­es. He was as deeply im­mersed in the OWL pa­per as ev­er, which left Har­ry free to sit down on the grass be­tween the beech and the bush­es and watch the four­some un­der the tree. The sun­light was daz­zling on the smooth sur­face of the lake, on the bank of which the group of laugh­ing girls who had just left the Great Hall were sit­ting, with their shoes and socks off, cool­ing their feet in the wa­ter.

Lupin had pulled out a book and was read­ing. Sir­ius stared around at the stu­dents milling over the grass, look­ing rather haughty and bored, but very hand­some­ly so. James was still play­ing with the Snitch, let­ting it zoom fur­ther and fur­ther away, al­most es­cap­ing but al­ways grabbed at the last sec­ond. Worm­tail was watch­ing him with his mouth open. Ev­ery time James made a par­tic­ular­ly dif­fi­cult catch, Worm­tail gasped and ap­plaud­ed. Af­ter five min­utes of this, Har­ry won­dered why James didn't tell Worm­tail to get a grip on him­self, but James seemed to be en­joy­ing the at­ten­tion. Har­ry no­ticed that his fa­ther had a habit of rum­pling up his hair as though to keep it from get­ting too tidy, and he al­so kept look­ing over at the girls by the wa­ter's edge.

Tut that away, will you,' said Sir­ius fi­nal­ly, as James made a fine catch and Worm­tail let out a cheer, 'be­fore Worm­tail wets him­self with ex­cite­ment.'

Worm­tail turned slight­ly pink, but James grinned.

'If it both­ers you,' he said, stuff­ing the Snitch back in his pock­et. Har­ry had the dis­tinct im­pres­sion that Sir­ius was the on­ly one for whom James would have stopped show­ing off.

'I'm bored,' said Sir­ius. 'Wish it was full moon.'

'You might,' said Lupin dark­ly from be­hind his book. 'We've still got Trans­fig­ura­tion, if you're bored you could test me. Here…" and he held out his book.

But Sir­ius snort­ed. 'I don't need to look at that rub­bish, I know it all.'

This'll liv­en you up, Pad­foot,' said James qui­et­ly. 'Look who it is…'

Sir­ius's head turned. He be­came very still, like a dog that has scent­ed a rab­bit.

'Ex­cel­lent,' he said soft­ly. 'Sniv­el­lus.'

Har­ry turned to see what Sir­ius was look­ing at.

Snape was on his feet again, and was stow­ing the OWL pa­per in his bag. As he left the shad­ows of the bush­es and set off across the grass, Sir­ius and James stood up.

Lupin and Worm­tail re­mained sit­ting: Lupin was still star­ing down at his book, though his eyes were not mov­ing and a faint frown line had ap­peared be­tween his eye­brows; Worm­tail was look­ing from Sir­ius and James to Snape with a look of avid an­tic­ipa­tion on his face.

'All right, Sniv­el­lus?' said James loud­ly.

Snape re­act­ed so fast it was as though he had been ex­pect­ing an at­tack: drop­ping his bag, he plunged his hand in­side his robes and his wand was halfway in­to the air when James shout­ed, 'Ex­pel­liar­mus!'

Snape's wand flew twelve feet in­to the air and fell with a lit­tle thud in the grass be­hind him. Sir­ius let out a bark of laugh­ter.

'Im­ped­imen­ta!' he said, point­ing his wand at Snape, who was knocked off his feet halfway through a dive to­wards his own fall­en wand.

Stu­dents all around had turned to watch. Some of them had got to their feet and were edg­ing near­er. Some looked ap­pre­hen­sive, oth­ers en­ter­tained.

Snape lay pant­ing on the ground. James and Sir­ius ad­vanced on him, wands raised, James glanc­ing over his shoul­der at the girls at the wa­ter's edge as he went. Worm­tail was on his feet now, watch­ing hun­gri­ly, edg­ing around Lupin to get a clear­er view.

'How'd the ex­am go, Sniv­el­ly?' said James.

'I was watch­ing him, his nose was touch­ing the parch­ment,' said Sir­ius vi­cious­ly. There'll be great grease marks all over it, they won't be able to read a word.'

Sev­er­al peo­ple watch­ing laughed; Snape was clear­ly un­pop­ular. Worm­tail snig­gered shril­ly. Snape was try­ing to get up, but the jinx was still op­er­at­ing on him; he was strug­gling, as though bound by in­vis­ible ropes.

'You - wait,' he pant­ed, star­ing up at James with an ex­pres­sion of purest loathing, 'you - wait!'

'Wait for what?' said Sir­ius cool­ly. 'What're you go­ing to do, Sniv­el­ly, wipe your nose on us?'

Snape let out a stream of mixed swear words and hex­es, but with his wand ten feet away noth­ing hap­pened.

'Wash out your mouth,' said James cold­ly. 'Scourgi­fy!'

Pink soap bub­bles streamed from Snape's mouth at once; the froth was cov­er­ing his lips, mak­ing him gag, chok­ing him -

'Leave him ALONE!'

James and Sir­ius looked round. James's free hand im­me­di­ate­ly jumped to his hair.

It was one of the girls from the lake edge. She had thick, dark red hair that fell to her shoul­ders, and startling­ly green al­mond-​shaped eyes - Har­ry's eyes.

Har­ry's moth­er.

'All right, Evans?' said James, and the tone of his voice was sud­den­ly pleas­ant, deep­er, more ma­ture.

'Leave him alone,' Lily re­peat­ed. She was look­ing at James with ev­ery sign of great dis­like. 'What's he done to you?'

'Well,' said James, ap­pear­ing to de­lib­er­ate the point, 'it's more the fact that he ex­ists, if you know what I mean…'

Many of the sur­round­ing stu­dents laughed, Sir­ius and Worm­tail in­clud­ed, but Lupin, still ap­par­ent­ly in­tent on his book, didn't, and nor did Lily.

'You think you're fun­ny,' she said cold­ly. 'But you're just an ar­ro­gant, bul­ly­ing to­er­ag, Pot­ter. Leave him alone.'

'I will if you go out with me, Evans,' said James quick­ly. 'Go on… go out with me and I'll nev­er lay a wand on old Sniv­el­ly again.'

Be­hind him, the Im­ped­iment Jinx was wear­ing off. Snape was be­gin­ning to inch to­wards his fall­en wand, spit­ting out soap­suds as he crawled.

'I wouldn't go out with you if it was a choice be­tween you and the gi­ant squid,' said Lily.

'Bad luck, Prongs,' said Sir­ius briskly, and turned back to Snape. 'OI!'

But too late; Snape had di­rect­ed his wand straight at James; there was a flash of light and a gash ap­peared on the side of James's face, spat­ter­ing his robes with blood. James whirled about: a sec­ond flash of light lat­er, Snape was hang­ing up­side-​down in the air, his robes falling over his head to re­veal skin­ny, pal­lid legs and a pair of grey­ing un­der­pants.

Many peo­ple in the small crowd cheered; Sir­ius, James and Worm­tail roared with laugh­ter.

Lily, whose fu­ri­ous ex­pres­sion had twitched for an in­stant as though she was go­ing to smile, said, 'Let him down!'

'Cer­tain­ly,' said James and he jerked his wand up­wards; Snape fell in­to a crum­pled heap on the ground. Dis­en­tan­gling him­self from his robes he got quick­ly to his feet, wand up, but Sir­ius said, 'Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!' and Snape keeled over again, rigid as a board.

'LEAVE HIM ALONE!' Lily shout­ed. She had her own wand out now. James and Sir­ius eyed it war­ily.

'Ah, Evans, don't make me hex you,' said James earnest­ly.

Take the curse off him, then!'

James sighed deeply, then turned to Snape and mut­tered the counter-​curse.

There you go,' he said, as Snape strug­gled to his feet. 'You're lucky Evans was here, Sniv­el­lus —'

'I don't need help from filthy lit­tle Mud­bloods like her!'

Lily blinked.

'Fine,' she said cool­ly. 'I won't both­er in fu­ture. And I'd wash your pants if I were you, Sniv­el­lus.'

'Apol­ogise to Evans!' James roared at Snape, his wand point­ed threat­en­ing­ly at him.

'I don't want you to make him apol­ogise,' Lily shout­ed, round­ing on James. 'You're as bad as he is.'

'What?' yelped James. I'd NEV­ER call you a - you-​know-​what!'

'Mess­ing up your hair be­cause you think it looks cool to look like you've just got off your broom­stick, show­ing off with that stupid Snitch, walk­ing down cor­ri­dors and hex­ing any­one who an­noys you just be­cause you can - I'm sur­prised your broom­stick can get off the ground with that fat head on it. You make me SICK.'

She turned on her heel and hur­ried away.

'Evans!' James shout­ed af­ter her. 'Hey, EVANS!'

But she didn't look back.

'What is it with her?' said James, try­ing and fail­ing to look as though this was a throw­away ques­tion of no re­al im­por­tance to him.

'Read­ing be­tween the lines, I'd say she thinks you're a bit con­ceit­ed, mate,' said Sir­ius.

'Right,' said James, who looked fu­ri­ous now, 'right -'

There was an­oth­er flash of light, and Snape was once again hang­ing up­side-​down in the air.

'Who wants to see me take off Sniv­el­ly's pants?'

But whether James re­al­ly did take off Snapes pants, Har­ry nev­er found out. A hand had closed tight over his up­per arm, closed with a pin­cer-​like grip. Winc­ing, Har­ry looked round to see who had hold of him, and saw, with a thrill of hor­ror, a ful­ly grown, adult-​sized Snape stand­ing right be­side him, white with rage.

'Hav­ing fun?'

Har­ry felt him­self ris­ing in­to the air; the sum­mer's day evap­orat­ed around him; he was float­ing up­wards through icy black­ness, Snape's hand still tight up­on his up­per arm. Then, with a swoop­ing feel­ing as though he had turned head-​over-​heels in midair, his feet hit the stone floor of Snape's dun­geon and he was stand­ing again be­side the Pen­sieve on Snape's desk in the shad­owy, present-​day Po­tion mas­ters study.

'So,' said Snape, grip­ping Har­ry's arm so tight­ly Har­ry's hand was start­ing to feel numb. 'So… been en­joy­ing your­self, Pot­ter?'

'N-​no,' said Har­ry, try­ing to free his arm.

It was scary: Snape's lips were shak­ing, his face v:as white, his teeth were bared.

'Amus­ing man, your fa­ther, wasn't he?' said Snape, shak­ing Har­ry so hard his glass­es slipped down his nose.

'I - didn't -'

Snape threw Har­ry from him with all his might. Har­ry fell hard on to the dun­geon floor. <;

'You will not re­peat what you saw to any­body!' Snape bel­lowed.

'No,' said Har­ry, get­ting to his feet as far from Snape as he could. 'No, of course I w—'

'Get out, get out, I don't want to see you in this of­fice ev­er again!'

And as Har­ry hur­tled to­wards the door, a jar of dead cock­roach­es ex­plod­ed over his head. He wrenched the door open and flew along the cor­ri­dor, stop­ping on­ly when he had put three floors be­tween him­self and Snape. There he leaned against the wall, pant­ing, and rub­bing his bruised arm.

He had no de­sire at all to re­turn to Gryffind­or Tow­er so ear­ly, nor to tell Ron and Hermione what he had just seen. What was mak­ing Har­ry feel so hor­ri­fied and un­hap­py was not be­ing shout­ed at or hav­ing jars thrown at him; it was that he knew how it felt to be hu­mil­iat­ed in the mid­dle of a cir­cle of on­look­ers, knew ex­act­ly how Snape had felt as his fa­ther had taunt­ed him, and that judg­ing from what he had just seen, his fa­ther had been ev­ery bit as ar­ro­gant as Snape had al­ways told him.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 29 - Career Advice


'But why haven't you got Oc­clu­men­cy lessons any more?' said Hermione, frown­ing.

'I've told you,' Har­ry mut­tered. 'Snape reck­ons I can car­ry on by my­self now I've got the ba­sics.'

'So you've stopped hav­ing fun­ny dreams?' said Hermione scep­ti­cal­ly.

'Pret­ty much,' said Har­ry, not look­ing at her.

'Well, I don't think Snape should stop un­til you're ab­so­lute­ly sure you can con­trol them!' said Hermione in­dig­nant­ly. 'Har­ry, I think you should go back to him and ask -'

'No,' said Har­ry force­ful­ly. 'Just drop it, Hermione, OK?'

It was the first day of the East­er hol­idays and Hermione, as was her cus­tom, had spent a large part of the day draw­ing up re­vi­sion timeta­bles for the three of them. Har­ry and Ron had let her do it; it was eas­ier than ar­gu­ing with her and, in any case, they might come in use­ful.

Ron had been star­tled to dis­cov­er there were on­ly six weeks left un­til their ex­ams.

'How can that come as a shock?' Hermione de­mand­ed, as she tapped each lit­tle square on Ron's timetable with her wand so that it flashed a dif­fer­ent colour ac­cord­ing to its sub­ject.

'I dun­no,' said Ron, 'there's been a lot go­ing on.'

'Well, there you are,' she said, hand­ing him his timetable, 'if you fol­low that you should do fine.'

Ron looked down it gloomi­ly, but then bright­ened.

'You've giv­en me an evening off ev­ery week!'

That's for Quid­ditch prac­tice,' said Hermione.

The smile fad­ed from Ron's face.

'What's the point?' he said dul­ly. 'We've got about as much chance of win­ning the Quid­ditch Cup this year as Dad's got of be­com­ing Min­is­ter for Mag­ic.'

Hermione said noth­ing; she was look­ing at Har­ry, who was star­ing blankly at the op­po­site wall of the com­mon room while Crook­shanks pawed at his hand, try­ing to get his ears scratched.

'What's wrong, Har­ry?'

'What?' he said quick­ly. 'Noth­ing.'

He seized his copy of De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory and pre­tend­ed to be look­ing some­thing up in the in­dex. Crook­shanks gave him up as a bad job and slunk away un­der Hermione's chair.

'I saw Cho ear­li­er,' said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly. 'She looked re­al­ly mis­er­able, too… have you two had a row again?'

'Wha— oh, yeah, we have,' said Har­ry, seiz­ing grate­ful­ly on the ex­cuse.

'What about?'

That sneak friend of hers, Ma­ri­et­ta,' said Har­ry.

'Yeah, well, I don't blame you!' said Ron an­gri­ly, set­ting down his re­vi­sion timetable. 'If it hadn't been for her…'

Ron went in­to a rant about Ma­ri­et­ta Edge­combe, which Har­ry found help­ful; all he had to do was look an­gry, nod and say 'Yeah' and That's right' when­ev­er Ron drew breath, leav­ing his mind free to dwell, ev­er more mis­er­ably, on what he had seen in the Pen­sieve.

He felt as though the mem­ory of it was eat­ing him from in­side. He had been so sure his par­ents were won­der­ful peo­ple that he had nev­er had the slight­est dif­fi­cul­ty in dis­be­liev­ing the as­per­sions Snape cast on his fa­ther's char­ac­ter. Hadn't peo­ple like Ha­grid and Sir­ius told Har­ry how won­der­ful his fa­ther had been? (Yeah, well, look what Sir­ius was like him­self, said a nag­ging voice in­side Har­ry's head… he was as bad, wasn't he?) Yes, he had once over­heard Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall say­ing that his fa­ther and Sir­ius had been trou­ble­mak­ers at school, but she had de­scribed them as fore­run­ners of the Weasley twins, and Har­ry could not imag­ine Fred and George dan­gling some­one up­side-​down for the fun of it… not un­less they re­al­ly loathed them… per­haps Mal­foy, or some­body who re­al­ly de­served it…

Har­ry tried to make a case for Snape hav­ing de­served what he had suf­fered at James's hands: but hadn't Lily asked, 'What's he done to you?' And hadn't James replied, 'It's more the fact that he ex­ists, if you know what I mean.' Hadn't James start­ed it all sim­ply be­cause Sir­ius had said he was bored? Har­ry re­mem­bered Lupin say­ing back in Grim­mauld Place that Dum­ble­dore had made him pre­fect in the hope that he would be able to ex­er­cise some con­trol over James and Sir­ius… but in the Pen­sieve, he had sat there and let it all hap­pen…

Har­ry kept re­mind­ing him­self that Lily had in­ter­vened; his moth­er had been de­cent. Yet, the mem­ory of the look on her face as she had shout­ed at James dis­turbed him quite as much as any­thing else; she had clear­ly loathed James, and Har­ry sim­ply could not un­der­stand how they could have end­ed up mar­ried. Once or twice he even won­dered whether James had forced her in­to it…

For near­ly five years the thought of his fa­ther had been a source of com­fort, of in­spi­ra­tion. When­ev­er some­one had told him he was like James, he had glowed with pride in­side. And now… now he felt cold and mis­er­able at the thought of him.

The weath­er grew breezi­er, brighter and warmer as the East­er hol­idays passed, but Har­ry, along with the rest of the fifth- and sev­enth-​years, was trapped in­side, re­vis­ing, traips­ing back and forth to the li­brary. Har­ry pre­tend­ed his bad mood had no oth­er cause but the ap­proach­ing ex­ams, and as his fel­low Gryffind­ors were sick of study­ing them­selves, his ex­cuse went un­chal­lenged.

'Har­ry, I'm talk­ing to you, can you hear me?'

'Huh?'

He looked round. Gin­ny Weasley, look­ing very windswept, had joined him at the li­brary ta­ble where he had been sit­ting alone. It was late on Sun­day evening: Hermione had gone back to Gryffind­or Tow­er to re­vise An­cient Runes, and Ron had Quid­ditch prac­tice.

'Oh, hi,' said Har­ry, pulling his books to­wards him. 'How come you're not at prac­tice?'

'It's over,' said Gin­ny. 'Ron had to take Jack Slop­er up to the hos­pi­tal wing.'

'Why?'

'Well, we're not sure, but we think he knocked him­self out with his own bat.' She sighed heav­ily. 'Any­way… a pack­age just ar­rived, it's on­ly just got through Um­bridge's new screen­ing pro­cess.'

She hoist­ed a box wrapped in brown pa­per on to the ta­ble; it had clear­ly been un­wrapped and care­less­ly re-​wrapped. There was a scrib­bled note across it in red ink, read­ing: In­spect­ed and Passed by the Hog­warts High In­quisi­tor.

'It's East­er eggs from Mum,' said Gin­ny. There's one for you… there you go.'

She hand­ed him a hand­some choco­late egg dec­orat­ed with small, iced Snitch­es and, ac­cord­ing to the pack­ag­ing, con­tain­ing a bag of Fizzing Whizzbees. Har­ry looked at it for a mo­ment, then, to his hor­ror, felt a lump rise in his throat.

'Are you OK, Har­ry?' Gin­ny asked qui­et­ly.

'Yeah, I'm fine,' said Har­ry gruffly. The lump in his throat was painful. He did not un­der­stand why an East­er egg should have made him feel like this.

'You seem re­al­ly down late­ly,' Gin­ny per­sist­ed. 'You know, I'm sure if you just talked to Cho…'

'It's not Cho I want to talk to,' said Har­ry brusque­ly.

'Who is it, then?' asked Gin­ny, watch­ing him close­ly.

'I…'

He glanced around to make quite sure no­body was lis­ten­ing. Madam Pince was sev­er­al shelves away, stamp­ing out a pile of books for a fran­tic-​look­ing Han­nah Ab­bott.

'I wish I could talk to Sir­ius,' he mut­tered. 'But I know I can't.'

Gin­ny con­tin­ued to watch him thought­ful­ly. More to give him­self some­thing to do than be­cause he re­al­ly want­ed any, Har­ry un­wrapped his East­er egg, broke off a large bit and put it in­to his mouth.

'Well,' said Gin­ny slow­ly, help­ing her­self to a bit of egg, too, 'if you re­al­ly want to talk to Sir­ius, I ex­pect we could think of a way to do it.'

'Come on,' said Har­ry dul­ly. 'With Um­bridge polic­ing the fires and read­ing all our mail?'

The thing about grow­ing up with Fred and George,' said Gin­ny thought­ful­ly, 'is that you sort of start think­ing any­thing's pos­si­ble if you've got enough nerve.'

Har­ry looked at her. Per­haps it was the ef­fect of the choco­late - Lupin had al­ways ad­vised eat­ing some af­ter en­coun­ters with De­men­tors - or sim­ply be­cause he had fi­nal­ly spo­ken aloud the wish that had been burn­ing in­side him for a week, but he felt a bit more hope­ful.

'WHAT DO YOU THINK YOU ARE DO­ING?'

'Oh damn,' whis­pered Gin­ny, jump­ing to her feet. 'I for­got -' Madam Pince was swoop­ing down on them, her shriv­elled face con­tort­ed with rage.

'Choco­late in the li­brary!' she screamed. 'Out - out - OUT!' And whip­ping out her wand, she caused Har­ry's books, bag and ink bot­tle to chase him and Gin­ny from the li­brary, whack­ing them re­peat­ed­ly over the head as they ran.

*

As though to un­der­line the im­por­tance of their up­com­ing ex­am­ina­tions, a batch of pam­phlets, leaflets and no­tices con­cern­ing var­ious wiz­ard­ing ca­reers ap­peared on the ta­bles in Gryffind­or Tow­er short­ly be­fore the end of the hol­idays, along with yet an­oth­er no­tice on the board, which read:

All fifth-​years are re­quired to at­tend a short meet­ing with their

Head of House dur­ing the first week of the sum­mer term to dis­cuss

their fu­ture ca­reers. Times of in­di­vid­ual ap­point­ments are list­ed be­low.

Har­ry looked down the list and found that he was ex­pect­ed in Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's of­fice at half past two on Mon­day, which would mean miss­ing most of Div­ina­tion. He and the oth­er fifth-​years spent a con­sid­er­able part of the fi­nal week­end of the East­er break read­ing all the ca­reers in­for­ma­tion that had been left there for their pe­rusal.

'Well, I don't fan­cy Heal­ing,' said Ron on the last evening of the hol­idays. He was im­mersed in a leaflet that car­ried the crossed bone-​and-​wand em­blem of St Mun­go's on its front. 'It says here you need at least “E” at NEWT lev­el in Po­tions, Her­bol­ogy, Trans­fig­ura­tion, Charms and De­fence Against the Dark Arts. I mean… blimey… don't want much, do they?'

'Well, it's a very re­spon­si­ble job, isn't it?' said Hermione ab­sent­ly.

She was por­ing over a bright pink and or­ange leaflet that was head­ed, 'SO YOU THINK YOU'D LIKE TO WORK IN MUG­GLE RE­LA­TIONS?'

'You don't seem to need many qual­ifi­ca­tions to li­aise with Mug­gles; all they want is an OWL in Mug­gle Stud­ies: Much more im­por­tant is your en­thu­si­asm, pa­tience and a good sense of­funl'

'You'd need more than a good sense of fun to li­aise with my un­cle,' said Har­ry dark­ly. 'Good sense of when to duck, more like.' He was halfway through a pam­phlet on wiz­ard bank­ing. 'Lis­ten to this: Are you seek­ing a chal­leng­ing ca­reer in­volv­ing trav­el, ad­ven­ture and sub­stan­tial, dan­ger-​re­lat­ed trea­sure bonus­es? Then con­sid­er a po­si­tion with Gringotts Wiz­ard­ing Bank, who are cur­rent­ly re­cruit­ing Curse-​Break­ers for thrilling op­por­tu­ni­ties abroad… They want Arith­man­cy, though; you could do it, Hermione!'

'I don't much fan­cy bank­ing,' said Hermione vague­ly, now im­mersed in: 'HAVE YOU GOT WHAT IT TAKES TO TRAIN SE­CU­RI­TY TROLLS?'

'Hey,' said a voice in Har­ry's ear. He looked round; Fred and George had come to join them. 'Gin­nys had a word with us about you,' said Fred, stretch­ing out his legs on the ta­ble in front of them and caus­ing sev­er­al book­lets on ca­reers with the Min­istry of Mag­ic to slide off on to the floor. 'She says you need to talk to Sir­ius?'

'What?' said Hermione sharply, freez­ing with her hand halfway to­wards pick­ing up 'MAKE A BANG AT THE DE­PART­MENT OF MAG­ICAL AC­CI­DENTS AND CATAS­TRO­PHES'.

'Yeah…' said Har­ry, try­ing to sound ca­su­al, 'yeah, I thought I'd like -'

'Don't be so ridicu­lous,' said Hermione, straight­en­ing up and look­ing at him as though she could not be­lieve her eyes. 'With Um­bridge grop­ing around in the fires and frisk­ing all the owls?'

'Well, we think we can find a way around that,' said George, stretch­ing and smil­ing. 'It's a sim­ple mat­ter of caus­ing a di­ver­sion. Now, you might have no­ticed that we have been rather qui­et on the may­hem front dur­ing the East­er hol­idays?'

'What was the point, we asked our­selves, of dis­rupt­ing leisure time?' con­tin­ued Fred. 'No point at all, we an­swered our­selves. And of course, we'd have messed up peo­ple's re­vi­sion, too, which would be the very last thing we'd want to do.'

He gave Hermione a sanc­ti­mo­nious lit­tle nod. She looked rather tak­en aback by this thought­ful­ness.

'But its busi­ness as usu­al from to­mor­row,' Fred con­tin­ued briskly. 'And if we're go­ing to be caus­ing a bit of up­roar, why not do it so that Har­ry can have his chat with Sir­ius?'

'Yes, but still,' said Hermione, with an air of ex­plain­ing some­thing very sim­ple to some­body very ob­tuse, 'even if you do cause a di­ver­sion, how is Har­ry sup­posed to talk to him?'

'Um­bridge's of­fice,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

He had been think­ing about it for a fort­night and could come up with no al­ter­na­tive. Um­bridge her­self had told him that the on­ly fire that was not be­ing watched was her own.

'Are - you - in­sane?' said Hermione in a hushed voice.

Ron had low­ered his leaflet on jobs in the Cul­ti­vat­ed Fun­gus Trade and was watch­ing the con­ver­sa­tion war­ily.

'I don't think so,' said Har­ry, shrug­ging.

'And how are you go­ing to get in there in the first place?'

Har­ry was ready for this ques­tion.

'Sir­ius's knife,' he said.

'Ex­cuse me?'

'Christ­mas be­fore last Sir­ius gave me a knife that'll open any lock,' said Har­ry. 'So even if she's be­witched the door so Alo­homo­ra won't work, which I bet she has -'

'What do you think about this?' Hermione de­mand­ed of Ron, and Har­ry was re­mind­ed ir­re­sistibly of Mrs. Weasley ap­peal­ing to her hus­band dur­ing Har­ry's first din­ner in Grim­mauld Place.

'I dun­no,' said Ron, look­ing alarmed at be­ing asked to give an opin­ion. 'If Har­ry wants to do it, it's up to him, isn't it?'

'Spo­ken like a true friend and Weasley,' said Fred, clap­ping Ron hard on the back. 'Right, then. We're think­ing of do­ing it to­mor­row, just af­ter lessons, be­cause it should cause max­imum im­pact if ev­ery­body's in the cor­ri­dors - Har­ry, we'll set it off in the east wing some­where, draw her right away from her own of­fice — I reck­on we should be able to guar­an­tee you, what, twen­ty min­utes?' he said, look­ing at George.

'Easy,' said George.

'What sort of di­ver­sion is it?' asked Ron.

'You'll see, lit­tle bro',' said Fred, as he and George got up again. 'At least, you will if you trot along to Gre­go­ry the Smarmy's cor­ri­dor round about five o'clock to­mor­row.'

*

Har­ry awoke very ear­ly the next day, feel­ing al­most as anx­ious as he had done on the morn­ing of his dis­ci­plinary hear­ing at the Min­istry of Mag­ic. It was not on­ly the prospect of break­ing in­to Um­bridge's of­fice and us­ing her fire to speak to Sir­ius that was mak­ing him feel ner­vous, though that was cer­tain­ly bad enough; to­day al­so hap­pened to be the first time Har­ry would be in close prox­im­ity to Snape since Snape had thrown him out of his of­fice.

Af­ter ly­ing in bed for a while think­ing about the day ahead, Har­ry got up very qui­et­ly and moved across to the win­dow be­side Nevilles bed, and stared out on a tru­ly glo­ri­ous morn­ing. The sky was a clear, misty, opales­cent blue. Di­rect­ly ahead of him, Har­ry could see the tow­er­ing beech tree be­low which his fa­ther had once tor­ment­ed Snape. He was not sure what Sir­ius could pos­si­bly say to him that would make up for what he had seen in the Pen­sieve, but he was des­per­ate to hear Sir­ius's own ac­count of what had hap­pened, to know of any mit­igat­ing fac­tors there might have been, any ex­cuse at all for his fa­ther's be­haviour…

Some­thing caught Har­ry's at­ten­tion: move­ment on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est. Har­ry squint­ed in­to the sun and saw Ha­grid emerg­ing from be­tween the trees. He seemed to be limp­ing. As Har­ry watched, Ha­grid stag­gered to the door of his cab­in and dis­ap­peared in­side it. Har­ry watched the cab­in for sev­er­al min­utes. Ha­grid did not emerge again, but smoke furled from the chim­ney, so Ha­grid could not be so bad­ly in­jured that he was un­equal to stok­ing the fire.

Har­ry turned away from the win­dow, head­ed back to his trunk and start­ed to dress.

With the prospect of forc­ing en­try in­to Um­bridge's of­fice ahead, Har­ry had nev­er ex­pect­ed the day to be a rest­ful one, but he had not reck­oned on Hermione's al­most con­tin­ual at­tempts to dis­suade him from what he was plan­ning to do at five o'clock. For the first time ev­er, she was at least as inat­ten­tive to Pro­fes­sor Binns in

His­to­ry of Mag­ic as Har­ry and Ron were, keep­ing up a stream of whis­pered ad­mo­ni­tions that Har­ry tried very hard to ig­nore.

'… and if she does catch you there, apart from be­ing ex­pelled, she'll be able to guess you've been talk­ing to Snuf­fles and this time I ex­pect she'll force you to drink Ver­itaserum and an­swer her ques­tions…'

'Hermione,' said Ron in a low and in­dig­nant voice, 'are you go­ing to stop telling Har­ry off and lis­ten to Binns, or am I go­ing to have to take my own notes?'

'You take notes for a change, it won't kill you!'

By the time they reached the dun­geons, nei­ther Har­ry nor Ron was speak­ing to Hermione. Un­de­terred, she took ad­van­tage of their si­lence to main­tain an un­in­ter­rupt­ed flow of dire warn­ings, all ut­tered un­der her breath in a ve­he­ment hiss that caused Sea­mus to waste five whole min­utes check­ing his caul­dron for leaks.

Snape, mean­while, seemed to have de­cid­ed to act as though Har­ry were in­vis­ible. Har­ry was, of course, well-​used to this tac­tic, as it was one of Un­cle Ver­non's favourites, and on the whole was grate­ful he had to suf­fer noth­ing worse. In fact, com­pared to what he usu­al­ly had to en­dure from Snape in the way of taunts and snide re­marks, he found the new ap­proach some­thing of an im­prove­ment, and was pleased to find that when left well alone, he was able to con­coct an In­vig­ora­tion Draught quite eas­ily. At the end of the les­son he scooped some of the po­tion in­to a flask, corked it and took it up to Snape's desk for mark­ing, feel­ing that he might at last have scraped an '£'.

He had just turned away when he heard a smash­ing noise. Mal­foy gave a glee­ful yell of laugh­ter. Har­ry whipped around. His po­tion sam­ple lay in pieces on the floor and Snape was sur­vey­ing him with a look of gloat­ing plea­sure.

'Whoops,' he said soft­ly. 'An­oth­er ze­ro, then, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry was too in­censed to speak. He strode back to his caul­dron, in­tend­ing to fill an­oth­er flask and force Snape to mark it, but saw to his hor­ror that the rest of the con­tents had van­ished.

'I'm sor­ry!' said Hermione, with her hands over her mouth. 'I'm re­al­ly sor­ry, Har­ry. I thought you'd fin­ished, so I cleared up!'

Har­ry could not bring him­self to an­swer. When the bell rang, he hur­ried out of the dun­geon with­out a back­wards glance, and made sure that he found him­self a seat be­tween Neville and Sea­mus for lunch so that Hermione could not start nag­ging him again about us­ing Um­bridge's of­fice.

He was in such a bad mood by the time he got to Div­ina­tion that he had quite for­got­ten his ca­reers ap­point­ment with Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, re­mem­ber­ing it on­ly when Ron asked him why he wasn't in her of­fice. He hur­tled back up­stairs and ar­rived out of breath, on­ly a few min­utes late.

'Sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor,' he pant­ed, as he closed the door. '1 for­got.'

'No mat­ter, Pot­ter,' she said briskly, but as she spoke, some­body else sniffed from the cor­ner. Har­ry looked round.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was sit­ting there, a clip­board on her knee, a fussy lit­tle pie-​frill around her neck and a small, hor­ri­bly smug smile on her face.

'Sit down, Pot­ter,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall terse­ly. Her hands shook slight­ly as she shuf­fled the many pam­phlets lit­ter­ing her desk.

Har­ry sat down with his back to Um­bridge and did his best to pre­tend he could not hear the scratch­ing of her quill on her clip­board.

'Well, Pot­ter, this meet­ing is to talk over any ca­reer ideas you might have, and to help you de­cide which sub­jects you should con­tin­ue in­to the sixth and sev­enth years,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. 'Have you had any thoughts about what you would like to do af­ter you leave Hog­warts?'

'Er -' said Har­ry.

He was find­ing the scratch­ing noise from be­hind him very dis­tract­ing.

'Yes?' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall prompt­ed Har­ry.

'Well, I thought of, maybe, be­ing an Au­ror,' Har­ry mum­bled.

'You'd need top grades for that,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, ex­tract­ing a small, dark leaflet from un­der the mass on her desk and open­ing it. They ask for a min­imum of five NEWTs, and noth­ing un­der “Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions” grade, I see. Then you would be re­quired to un­der­go a strin­gent se­ries of char­ac­ter and ap­ti­tude tests at the Au­ror of­fice. It's a dif­fi­cult ca­reer path, Pot­ter, they on­ly take the best. In fact, I don't think any­body has been tak­en on in the last three years.'

At this mo­ment, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge gave a very tiny cough, as though she was try­ing to see how qui­et­ly she could do it. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall ig­nored her.

'You'll want to know which sub­jects you ought to take, I sup­pose?' she went on, talk­ing a lit­tle loud­er than be­fore.

'Yes,' said Har­ry. 'De­fence Against the Dark Arts, I sup­pose?'

'Nat­ural­ly,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall crisply. 'I would al­so ad­vise -'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge gave an­oth­er cough, a lit­tle more au­di­ble this time. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall closed her eyes for a mo­ment, opened them again, and con­tin­ued as though noth­ing had hap­pened.

'I would al­so ad­vise Trans­fig­ura­tion, be­cause Au­rors fre­quent­ly need to Trans­fig­ure or Un­trans­fig­ure in their work. And I ought to tell you now, Pot­ter, that I do not ac­cept stu­dents in­to my NEWT class­es un­less they have achieved “Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions” or high­er at Or­di­nary Wiz­ard­ing Lev­el. I'd say you're av­er­ag­ing “Ac­cept­able” at the mo­ment, so you'll need to put in some good hard work be­fore the ex­ams to stand a chance of con­tin­uing. Then you ought to do Charms, al­ways use­ful, and Po­tions. Yes, Pot­ter, Po­tions,' she added, with the mer­est flick­er of a smile. 'Poi­sons and an­ti­dotes are es­sen­tial study for Au­rors. And I must tell you that Pro­fes­sor Snape ab­so­lute­ly re­fus­es to take stu­dents who get any­thing oth­er than “Out­stand­ing” in their OWLs, so -'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge gave her most pro­nounced cough yet.

'May I of­fer you a cough drop, Do­lores?' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall asked curt­ly, with­out look­ing at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

'Oh, no, thank you very much,' said Um­bridge, with that sim­per­ing laugh Har­ry hat­ed so much. 'I just won­dered whether I could make the teen­si­est in­ter­rup­tion, Min­er­va?'

'I dare­say you'll find you can,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall through tight­ly grit­ted teeth.

'I was just won­der­ing whether Mr Pot­ter has quite the tem­per­ament for an Au­ror?' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge sweet­ly.

'Were you?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall haugh­ti­ly. 'Well, Pot­ter,'

she con­tin­ued, as though there had been no in­ter­rup­tion, 'if you are se­ri­ous in this am­bi­tion, I would ad­vise you to con­cen­trate hard on bring­ing your Trans­fig­ura­tion and Po­tions up to scratch. I see Pro­fes­sor Flitwick has grad­ed you be­tween “Ac­cept­able” and “Ex­ceeds Ex­pec­ta­tions” for the last two years, so your Charm­work seems sat­is­fac­to­ry. As for De­fence Against the Dark Arts, your marks have been gen­er­al­ly high, Pro­fes­sor Lupin in par­tic­ular thought you - are you quite sure you wouldn't like a cough drop, Do­lor­esT

'Oh, no need, thank you, Min­er­va; sim­pered Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, who had just coughed her loud­est yet. 'I was just con­cerned that you might not have Har­rys most re­cent De­fence Against the Dark Arts marks in front of you. I'm quite sure I slipped in a note.'

'What, this thing?' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in a tone of re­vul­sion, as she pulled a sheet of pink parch­ment from be­tween the leaves of Har­ry's fold­er. She glanced down it, her eye­brows slight­ly raised, then placed it back in­to the fold­er with­out com­ment.

'Yes, as I was say­ing, Pot­ter, Pro­fes­sor Lupin thought you showed a pro­nounced ap­ti­tude for the sub­ject, and ob­vi­ous­ly for an Au­ror -'

'Did you not un­der­stand my note, Min­er­va?' asked Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge in hon­eyed tones, quite for­get­ting to cough.

'Of course I un­der­stood it,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, her teeth clenched so tight­ly the words came out a lit­tle muf­fled.

'Well, then, I am con­fused… I'm afraid I don't quite un­der­stand how you can give Mr Pot­ter false hope that -'

'False hope?' re­peat­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, still re­fus­ing to look round at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. 'He has achieved high marks in all his De­fence Against the Dark Arts tests -'

'I'm ter­ri­bly sor­ry to have to con­tra­dict you, Min­er­va, but as you will see from my note, Har­ry has been achiev­ing very poor re­sults in his class­es with me -'

'I should have made my mean­ing plain­er,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing at last to look Um­bridge di­rect­ly in the eyes. 'He has achieved high marks in all De­fence Against the Dark Arts tests set by a com­pe­tent teach­er.'

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's smile van­ished as sud­den­ly as a light bulb blow­ing. She sat back in her chair, turned a sheet on her clip­board and be­gan scrib­bling very fast in­deed, her bulging eyes rolling from side to side. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall turned back to Har­ry, her thin nos­trils flared, her eyes burn­ing.

'Any ques­tions, Pot­ter?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry. 'What sort of char­ac­ter and ap­ti­tude tests do the Min­istry do on you, if you get enough NEWTs?'

'Well, you'll need to demon­strate the abil­ity to re­act well to pres­sure and so forth,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, 'per­se­ver­ance and ded­ica­tion, be­cause Au­ror train­ing takes a fur­ther three years, not to men­tion very high skills in prac­ti­cal De­fence. It will mean a lot more study even af­ter you've left school, so un­less you're pre­pared to -'

'I think you'll al­so find,' said Um­bridge, her voice very cold now, 'that the Min­istry looks in­to the records of those ap­ply­ing to be Au­rors. Their crim­inal records.'

'- un­less you're pre­pared to take even more ex­ams af­ter Hog­warts, you should re­al­ly look at an­oth­er -'

'Which means that this boy has as much chance of be­com­ing an Au­ror as Dum­ble­dore has of ev­er re­turn­ing to this school.'

'A very good chance, then,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Pot­ter has a crim­inal record,' said Um­bridge loud­ly.

'Pot­ter has been cleared of all charges,' said McG­ona­gall, even more loud­ly.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge stood up. She was so short that this did not make a great deal of dif­fer­ence, but her fussy, sim­per­ing de­meanour had giv­en place to a hard fury that made her broad, flab­by face look odd­ly sin­is­ter.

'Pot­ter has no chance what­so­ev­er of be­com­ing an Au­ror!'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall got to her feet, too, and in her case this was a much more im­pres­sive move; she tow­ered over Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

'Pot­ter,' she said in ring­ing tones, 'I will as­sist you to be­come an Au­ror if it is the last thing I do! If I have to coach you night­ly, I will make sure you achieve the re­quired re­sults!'

The Min­is­ter for Mag­ic will nev­er em­ploy Har­ry Pot­ter!' said Um­bridge, her voice ris­ing fu­ri­ous­ly.

There may well be a new Min­is­ter for Mag­ic by the time Pot­ter is ready to join!' shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Aha!' shrieked Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, point­ing a stub­by fin­ger at McG­ona­gall. 'Yes! Yes, yes, yes! Of course! That's what you want, isn't it, Min­er­va McG­ona­gall? You want Cor­nelius Fudge re­placed by Al­bus Dum­ble­dore! You think you'll be where I am, don't you: Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter and Head­mistress to boot!'

'You are rav­ing,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, su­perbly dis­dain­ful. 'Pot­ter, that con­cludes our ca­reers con­sul­ta­tion.'

Har­ry swung his bag over his shoul­der and hur­ried out of the room, not dar­ing to look at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge. He could hear her and Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­tin­uing to shout at each oth­er all the way back along the cor­ri­dor.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was still breath­ing as though she had just run a race when she strode in­to their De­fence Against the Dark Arts les­son that af­ter­noon.

'I hope you've thought bet­ter of what you were plan­ning to do, Har­ry,' Hermione whis­pered, the mo­ment they had opened their books to 'Chap­ter Thir­ty-​four, Non-​Re­tal­ia­tion and Ne­go­ti­ation'. 'Um­bridge looks like she's in a re­al­ly bad mood al­ready…'

Ev­ery now and then Um­bridge shot glow­er­ing looks at Har­ry, who kept his head down, star­ing at De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory, his eyes un­fo­cused, think­ing…

He could just imag­ine Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's re­ac­tion if he was caught tres­pass­ing in Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge's of­fice mere hours af­ter she had vouched for him… there was noth­ing to stop him sim­ply go­ing back to Gryffind­or Tow­er and hop­ing that some time dur­ing the next sum­mer hol­idays he would have a chance to ask Sir­ius about the scene he had wit­nessed in the Pen­sieve… noth­ing, ex­cept that the thought of tak­ing this sen­si­ble course of ac­tion made him feel as though a lead weight had dropped in­to his stom­ach… and then there was the mat­ter of Fred and George, whose di­ver­sion was al­ready planned, not to men­tion the knife Sir­ius had giv­en him, which was cur­rent­ly re­sid­ing in his school­bag along with his fa­ther's old In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

But the fact re­mained that if he was caught…

'Dum­ble­dore sac­ri­ficed him­self to keep you in school, Har­ry!' whis­pered Hermione, rais­ing her book to hide her face from

Um­bridge. 'And if you get thrown out to­day it will all have been for noth­ing!'

He could aban­don the plan and sim­ply learn to live with the mem­ory of what his fa­ther had done on a sum­mer's day more than twen­ty years ago…

And then he re­mem­bered Sir­ius in the fire up­stairs in the Gryffind­or com­mon room…

You're less like your fa­ther than I thought… the risk would've been what made it fun for James…

But did he want to be like his fa­ther any more?

'Har­ry, don't do it, please don't do it!' Hermione said in an­guished tones as the bell rang at the end of the class.

He did not an­swer; he did not know what to do.

Ron seemed de­ter­mined to give nei­ther his opin­ion nor his ad­vice; he would not look at Har­ry, though when Hermione opened her mouth to try dis­suad­ing Har­ry some more, he said in a low voice, 'Give it a rest, OK? He can make up his own mind.'

Har­rys heart beat very fast as he left the class­room. He was halfway along the cor­ri­dor out­side when he heard the un­mis­take-​able sounds of a di­ver­sion go­ing off in the dis­tance. There were screams and yells re­ver­ber­at­ing from some­where above them; peo­ple ex­it­ing the class­rooms all around Har­ry were stop­ping in their tracks and look­ing up at the ceil­ing fear­ful­ly -

Um­bridge came pelt­ing out of her class­room as fast as her short legs would car­ry her. Pulling out her wand, she hur­ried off in the op­po­site di­rec­tion: it was now or nev­er.

'Har­ry - please!' Hermione plead­ed weak­ly.

But he had made up his mind; hitch­ing his bag more se­cure­ly on to his shoul­der, he set off at a run, weav­ing in and out of stu­dents now hur­ry­ing in the op­po­site di­rec­tion to see what all the fuss was about in the east wing.

Har­ry reached the cor­ri­dor to Um­bridge's of­fice and found it de­sert­ed. Dash­ing be­hind a large suit of ar­mour whose hel­met creaked around to watch him, he pulled open his bag, seized Sir­iuss knife and donned the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. He then crept slow­ly and care­ful­ly back out from be­hind the suit of ar­mour and along the cor­ri­dor un­til he reached Um­bridge's door.

He in­sert­ed the blade of the mag­ical knife in­to the crack around it and moved it gen­tly up and down, then with­drew it. There was a tiny click, and the door swung open. He ducked in­side the of­fice, closed the door quick­ly be­hind him and looked around.

Noth­ing was mov­ing ex­cept the hor­ri­ble kit­tens that were still frol­ick­ing on the wall plates above the con­fis­cat­ed broom­sticks.

Har­ry pulled off his Cloak and, strid­ing over to the fire­place, found what he was look­ing for with­in sec­onds: a small box con­tain­ing glit­ter­ing Floo pow­der.

He crouched down in front of the emp­ty grate, his hands shak­ing. He had nev­er done this be­fore, though he thought he knew how it must work. Stick­ing his head in­to the fire­place, he took a large pinch of pow­der and dropped it on to the logs stacked neat­ly be­neath him. They ex­plod­ed at once in­to emer­ald green flames.

'Num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place!' Har­ry said loud­ly and clear­ly.

It was one of the most cu­ri­ous sen­sa­tions he had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced. He had trav­elled by Floo pow­der be­fore, of course, but then it had been his en­tire body that had spun around and around in the flames through the net­work of wiz­ard­ing fire­places that stretched over the coun­try. This time, his knees re­mained firm up­on the cold floor of Um­bridge's of­fice, and on­ly his head hur­tled through the emer­ald fire…

And then, as abrupt­ly as it had be­gun, the spin­ning stopped. Feel­ing rather sick and as though he were wear­ing an ex­cep­tion­al­ly hot muf­fler around his head, Har­ry opened his eyes to find that he was look­ing up out of the kitchen fire­place at the long, wood­en ta­ble, where a man sat por­ing over a piece of parch­ment.

'Sir­ius?'

The man jumped and looked around. It was not Sir­ius, but Lupin.

'Har­ry!' he said, look­ing thor­ough­ly shocked. 'What are you -what's hap­pened, is ev­ery­thing all right?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'I just won­dered — I mean, I just fan­cied a -a chat with Sir­ius.'

'I'll call him,' said Lupin, get­ting to his feet, still look­ing per­plexed, 'he went up­stairs to look for Kreach­er, he seems to be hid­ing in the at­tic again…'

And Har­ry saw Lupin hur­ry out of the kitchen. Now he was left with noth­ing to look at but the chair and ta­ble legs. He won­dered why Sir­ius had nev­er men­tioned how very un­com­fort­able it was to speak out of the fire; his knees were al­ready ob­ject­ing painful­ly to their pro­longed con­tact with Um­bridge's hard stone floor.

Lupin re­turned with Sir­ius at his heels mo­ments lat­er.

'What is it?' said Sir­ius ur­gent­ly, sweep­ing his long dark hair out of his eyes and drop­ping to the ground in front of the fire, so that he and Har­ry were on a lev­el. Lupin knelt down too, look­ing very con­cerned. 'Are you all right? Do you need help?'

'No,' said Har­ry, 'it's noth­ing like that… I just want­ed to talk… about my dad.'

They ex­changed a look of great sur­prise, but Har­ry did not have time to feel awk­ward or em­bar­rassed; his knees were be­com­ing sor­er by the sec­ond and he guessed five min­utes had al­ready passed from the start of the di­ver­sion; George had on­ly guar­an­teed him twen­ty. He there­fore plunged im­me­di­ate­ly in­to the sto­ry of what he had seen in the Pen­sieve.

When he had fin­ished, nei­ther Sir­ius nor Lupin spoke for a mo­ment. Then Lupin said qui­et­ly, 'I wouldn't like you to judge your fa­ther on what you saw there, Har­ry. He was on­ly fif­teen -'

'I'm fif­teen!' said Har­ry heat­ed­ly.

'Look, Har­ry' said Sir­ius pla­cat­ing­ly, 'James and Snape hat­ed each oth­er from the mo­ment they set eyes on each oth­er, it was just one of those things, you can un­der­stand that, can't you? I think James was ev­ery­thing Snape want­ed to be - he was pop­ular, he was good at Quid­ditch - good at pret­ty much ev­ery­thing. And Snape was just this lit­tle odd­ball who was up to his eyes in the Dark Arts, and James - what­ev­er else he may have ap­peared to you, Har­ry - al­ways hat­ed the Dark Arts.'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, 'but he just at­tacked Snape for no good rea­son, just be­cause - well, just be­cause you said you were bored,' he fin­ished, with a slight­ly apolo­get­ic note in his voice.

'I'm not proud of it,' said Sir­ius quick­ly.

Lupin looked side­ways at Sir­ius, then said, 'Look, Har­ry, what you've got to un­der­stand is that your fa­ther and Sir­ius were the best in the school at what­ev­er they did - ev­ery­one thought they were the height of cool - if they some­times got a bit car­ried away -'

'If we were some­times ar­ro­gant lit­tle berks, you mean,' said Sir­ius.

Lupin smiled.

'He kept mess­ing up his hair,' said Har­ry in a pained voice.

Sir­ius and Lupin laughed.

'I'd for­got­ten he used to do that,' said Sir­ius af­fec­tion­ate­ly.

'Was he play­ing with the Snitch?' said Lupin ea­ger­ly.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, watch­ing un­com­pre­hend­ing­ly as Sir­ius and Lupin beamed rem­inis­cent­ly. 'Well… I thought he was a bit of an id­iot.'

'Of course he was a bit of an id­iot!' said Sir­ius brac­ing­ly, 'we were all id­iots! Well - not Moony so much,' he said fair­ly, look­ing at Lupin.

But Lupin shook his head. 'Did I ev­er tell you to lay off Snape?' he said. 'Did I ev­er have the guts to tell you I thought you were out of or­der?'

'Yeah, well,' said Sir­ius, 'you made us feel ashamed of our­selves some­times… that was some­thing…"

'And,' said Har­ry dogged­ly, de­ter­mined to say ev­ery­thing that was on his mind now he was here, 'he kept look­ing over at the girls by the lake, hop­ing they were watch­ing him!'

'Oh, well, he al­ways made a fool of him­self when­ev­er Lily was around,' said Sir­ius, shrug­ging, 'he couldn't stop him­self show­ing off when­ev­er he got near her.'

'How come she mar­ried him?' Har­ry asked mis­er­ably. 'She hat­ed him!'

'Nah, she didn't,' said Sir­ius.

'She start­ed go­ing out with him in sev­enth year,' said Lupin.

'Once James had de­flat­ed his head a bit,' said Sir­ius.

'And stopped hex­ing peo­ple just for the fun of it,' said Lupin.

'Even Snape?' said Har­ry.

Well,' said Lupin slow­ly, 'Snape was a spe­cial case. I mean, he nev­er lost an op­por­tu­ni­ty to curse James so you couldn't re­al­ly ex­pect James to take that ly­ing down, could you?'

'And my mum was OK with that?'

'She didn't know too much about it, to tell you the truth,' said Sir­ius. '1 mean, James didn't take Snape on dates with her and jinx him in front of her, did he?'

Sir­ius frowned at Har­ry, who was still look­ing un­con­vinced.

'Look,' he said, 'your fa­ther was the best friend I ev­er had and he was a good per­son. A lot of peo­ple are id­iots at the age of fif­teen. He grew out of it.'

'Yeah, OK,' said Har­ry heav­ily. 'I just nev­er thought I'd feel sor­ry for Snape.'

'Now you men­tion it,' said Lupin, a faint crease be­tween his eye­brows, 'how did Snape re­act when he found you'd seen all this?'

'He told me he'd nev­er teach me Oc­clu­men­cy again,' said Har­ry in­dif­fer­ent­ly, 'like that's a big dis­ap­point—'

'He WHAT?' shout­ed Sir­ius, caus­ing Har­ry to jump and in­hale a mouth­ful of ash­es.

'Are you se­ri­ous, Har­ry?' said Lupin quick­ly. 'He's stopped giv­ing you lessons?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, sur­prised at what he con­sid­ered a great over-​re­ac­tion. 'But it's OK, I don't care, it's a bit of a re­lief to tell you the -'

'I'm com­ing up there to have a word with Snape!' said Sir­ius force­ful­ly, and he ac­tu­al­ly made to stand up, but Lupin wrenched him back down again.

'If any­one's go­ing to tell Snape it will be me!' he said firm­ly. 'But Har­ry, first of all, you're to go back to Snape and tell him that on no ac­count is he to stop giv­ing you lessons — when Dum­ble­dore hears -'

'I can't tell him that, he'd kill me!' said Har­ry, out­raged. 'You didn't see him when we got out of the Pen­sieve.'

'Har­ry there is noth­ing so im­por­tant as you learn­ing Oc­clu­men­cy!' said Lupin stern­ly. 'Do you un­der­stand me? Noth­ing!'

'OK, OK,' said Har­ry, thor­ough­ly dis­com­posed, not to men­tion an­noyed. Til… I'll try and say some­thing to him… but it won't be-'

He fell silent. He could hear dis­tant foot­steps.

'Is that Kreach­er com­ing down­stairs?'

'No,' said Sir­ius, glanc­ing be­hind him. 'It must be some­body your end.'

Har­rys heart skipped sev­er­al beats.

I'd bet­ter go!' he said hasti­ly and pulled his head back­wards out of the Grim­mauld Place fire. For a mo­ment his head seemed to be re­volv­ing on his shoul­ders, then he found him­self kneel­ing in front of Um­bridge's fire with it firm­ly back on and watch­ing the emer­ald flames flick­er and die.

'Quick­ly, quick­ly!' he heard a wheezy voice mut­ter right out­side the of­fice door. 'Ah, she's left it open -'

Har­ry dived for the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and had just man­aged to pull it back over him­self when Filch burst in­to the of­fice. He looked ab­so­lute­ly de­light­ed about some­thing and was talk­ing to him­self fever­ish­ly as he crossed the room, pulled open a draw­er in Um­bridge's desk and be­gan ri­fling through the pa­pers in­side it.

'Ap­proval for Whip­ping… Ap­proval for Whip­ping… I can do it at last… they've had it com­ing to them for years…'

He pulled out a piece of parch­ment, kissed it, then shuf­fled rapid­ly back out of the door, clutch­ing it to his chest.

Har­ry leapt to his feet and, mak­ing sure he had his bag and that the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak was com­plete­ly cov­er­ing him, he wrenched open the door and hur­ried out of the of­fice af­ter Filch, who was hob­bling along faster than Har­ry had ev­er seen him go.

One land­ing down from Um­bridge's of­fice, Har­ry thought it was safe to be­come vis­ible again. He pulled off the Cloak, shoved it in his bag and hur­ried on­wards. There was a great deal of shout­ing and move­ment com­ing from the En­trance Hall. He ran down the mar­ble stair­case and found what looked like most of the school as­sem­bled there.

It was just like the night when Trelawney had been sacked. Stu­dents were stand­ing all around the walls in a great ring (some of them, Har­ry no­ticed, cov­ered in a sub­stance that looked very like Stinksap); teach­ers and ghosts were al­so in the crowd. Promi­nent among the on­look­ers were mem­bers of the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad, who were all look­ing ex­cep­tion­al­ly pleased with them­selves, and Peeves, who was bob­bing over­head, gazed down at Fred and George who stood in the mid­dle of the floor with the un­mis­take­able look of two peo­ple who had just been cor­nered.

'So!' said Um­bridge tri­umphant­ly. Har­ry re­alised she was stand­ing just a few stairs in front of him, once more look­ing down up­on her prey. 'So - you think it amus­ing to turn a school cor­ri­dor in­to a swamp, do you?'

'Pret­ty amus­ing, yeah,' said Fred, look­ing up at her with­out the slight­est sign of fear.

Filch el­bowed his way clos­er to Um­bridge, al­most cry­ing with hap­pi­ness.

'I've got the form, Head­mistress,' he said hoarse­ly, wav­ing the piece of parch­ment Har­ry had just seen him take from her desk. 'I've got the form and I've got the whips wait­ing… oh, let me do it now…"

'Very good, Ar­gus,' she said. 'You two,' she went on, gaz­ing down at Fred and George, 'are about to learn what hap­pens to wrong­do­ers in my school.'

'You know what?' said Fred. 'I don't think we are.'

He turned to his twin.

'George,' said Fred, 'I think we've out­grown full-​time ed­uca­tion.'

'Yeah, I've been feel­ing that way my­self,' said George light­ly.

Time to test our tal­ents in the re­al world, d'you reck­on?' asked Fred.

'Def­inite­ly,' said George.

And be­fore Um­bridge could say a word, they raised their wands and said to­geth­er:

'Ac­cio brooms!'

Har­ry heard a loud crash some­where in the dis­tance. Look­ing to his left, he ducked just in time. Fred and George's broom­sticks, one still trail­ing the heavy chain and iron peg with which Um­bridge had fas­tened them to the wall, were hurtling along the cor­ri­dor to­wards their own­ers; they turned left, streaked down the stairs and stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain clat­ter­ing loud­ly on the flagged stone floor.

'We won't be see­ing you,' Fred told Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, swing­ing his leg over his broom­stick.

'Yeah, don't both­er to keep in touch,' said George, mount­ing his own.

Fred looked around at the as­sem­bled stu­dents, at the silent, watch­ful crowd.

'If any­one fan­cies buy­ing a Portable Swamp, as demon­strat­ed up­stairs, come to num­ber nine­ty-​three, Di­agon Al­ley - Weasleys' Wiz­ard­ing Wheezes,' he said in a loud voice. 'Our new premis­es!'

'Spe­cial dis­counts to Hog­warts stu­dents who swear they're go­ing to use our prod­ucts to get rid of this old bat,' added George, point­ing at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

'STOP THEM!' shrieked Um­bridge, but it was too late. As the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad closed in, Fred and George kicked off from the floor, shoot­ing fif­teen feet in­to the air, the iron peg swing­ing dan­ger­ous­ly be­low. Fred looked across the hall at the poltergeist bob­bing on his lev­el above the crowd.

'Give her hell from us, Peeves.'

And Peeves, who Har­ry had nev­er seen take an or­der from a stu­dent be­fore, swept his belled hat from his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George wheeled about to tu­mul­tuous ap­plause from the stu­dents be­low and sped out of the open front doors in­to the glo­ri­ous sun­set.

just a few stairs in front of him, once more look­ing down up­on her prey. 'So - you think it amus­ing to turn a school cor­ri­dor in­to a swamp, do you?'

'Pret­ty amus­ing, yeah,' said Fred, look­ing up at her with­out the slight­est sign of fear.

Filch el­bowed his way clos­er to Um­bridge, al­most cry­ing with hap­pi­ness.

'I've got the form, Head­mistress,' he said hoarse­ly, wav­ing the piece of parch­ment Har­ry had just seen him take from her desk. 'I've got the form and I've got the whips wait­ing… oh, let me do it now

'Very good, Ar­gus,' she said. 'You two,' she went on, gaz­ing down at Fred and George, 'are about to learn what hap­pens to wrong­do­ers in my school.'

'You know what?' said Fred. 'I don't think we are.'

He turned to his twin.

'George,' said Fred, 'I think we've out­grown full-​time ed­uca­tion.'

'Yeah, I've been feel­ing that way my­self,' said George light­ly.

Time to test our tal­ents in the re­al world, d'you reck­on?' asked Fred.

'Def­inite­ly,' said George.

And be­fore Um­bridge could say a word, they raised their wands and said to­geth­er:

'Ac­cio brooms!'

Har­ry heard a loud crash some­where in the dis­tance. Look­ing to his left, he ducked just in time. Fred and George's broom­sticks, one still trail­ing the heavy chain and iron peg with which Um­bridge had fas­tened them to the wall, were hurtling along the cor­ri­dor to­wards their own­ers; they turned left, streaked down the stairs and stopped sharply in front of the twins, the chain clat­ter­ing loud­ly on the flagged stone floor.

'We won't be see­ing you,' Fred told Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, swing­ing his leg over his broom­stick.

'Yeah, don't both­er to keep in touch,' said George, mount­ing his own.

Fred looked around at the as­sem­bled stu­dents, at the silent, watch­ful crowd.

'If any­one fan­cies buy­ing a Portable Swamp, as demon­strat­ed up­stairs, come to num­ber nine­ty-​three, Di­agon Al­ley - Weasleys' Wiz­ard­ing Wheezes,' he said in a loud voice. 'Our new premis­es!'

'Spe­cial dis­counts to Hog­warts stu­dents who swear they're go­ing to use our prod­ucts to get rid of this old bat,' added George, point­ing at Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge.

'STOP THEM!' shrieked Um­bridge, but it was too late. As the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad closed in, Fred and George kicked off from the floor, shoot­ing fif­teen feet in­to the air, the iron peg swing­ing dan­ger­ous­ly be­low. Fred looked across the hall at the poltergeist bob­bing on his lev­el above the crowd.

'Give her hell from us, Peeves.'

And Peeves, who Har­ry had nev­er seen take an or­der from a stu­dent be­fore, swept his belled hat from his head and sprang to a salute as Fred and George wheeled about to tu­mul­tuous ap­plause from the stu­dents be­low and sped out of the open front doors in­to the glo­ri­ous sun­set.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 30 - Grawp


The sto­ry of Fred and George's flight to free­dom was re­told so of­ten over the next few days that Har­ry could tell it would soon be­come the stuff of Hog­warts leg­end: with­in a week, even those who had been eye-​wit­ness­es were half-​con­vinced they had seen the twins dive-​bomb Um­bridge on their brooms and pelt her with Dung­bombs be­fore zoom­ing out of the doors. In the im­me­di­ate af­ter­math of their de­par­ture there was a great wave of talk about copy­ing them. Har­ry fre­quent­ly heard stu­dents say­ing things like, 'Hon­est­ly some days I just feel like jump­ing on my broom and leav­ing this place,' or else, 'One more les­son like that and I might just do a Weasley.'

Fred and George had made sure no­body was like­ly to for­get them too soon. For one thing, they had not left in­struc­tions on how to re­move the swamp that now filled the cor­ri­dor on the fifth floor of the east wing. Um­bridge and Filch had been ob­served try­ing dif­fer­ent means of re­mov­ing it but with­out suc­cess. Even­tu­al­ly the area was roped off and Filch, gnash­ing his teeth fu­ri­ous­ly, was giv­en the task of punt­ing stu­dents across it to their class­rooms. Har­ry was cer­tain that teach­ers like McG­ona­gall or Flitwick could have re­moved the swamp in an in­stant but, just as in the case of Fred and Georges Wild­fire Whiz-​bangs, they seemed to pre­fer to watch Um­bridge strug­gle.

Then there were the two large broom-​shaped holes in Um­bridge's of­fice door, through which Fred and George's Clean­sweeps had smashed to re­join their mas­ters. Filch fit­ted a new door and re­moved Har­ry's Fire­bolt to the dun­geons where, it was ru­moured, Um­bridge had set an armed se­cu­ri­ty troll to guard it. How­ev­er, her trou­bles were far from over.

In­spired by Fred and George's ex­am­ple, a great num­ber of stu­dents were now vy­ing for the new­ly va­cant po­si­tions of Trou­ble­mak­ers-​in-​Chief. In spite of the new door, some­body man­aged to slip a hairy-​snout­ed Nif­fler in­to Um­bridge's of­fice, which prompt­ly tore the place apart in its search for shiny ob­jects, leapt on Um­bridge when she en­tered and tried to gnaw the rings off her stub­by fin­gers. Dung­bombs and Stink Pel­lets were dropped so fre­quent­ly in the cor­ri­dors that it be­came the new fash­ion for stu­dents to per­form Bub­ble-​Head Charms on them­selves be­fore leav­ing lessons, which en­sured them a sup­ply of fresh air, even though it gave them all the pe­cu­liar ap­pear­ance of wear­ing up­side-​down gold­fish bowls on their heads.

Filch prowled the cor­ri­dors with a horse­whip ready in his hands, des­per­ate to catch mis­cre­ants, but the prob­lem was that there were now so many of them he nev­er knew which way to turn. The In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad was at­tempt­ing to help him, but odd things kept hap­pen­ing to its mem­bers. War­ring­ton of the Slytherin Quid­ditch team re­port­ed to the hos­pi­tal wing with a hor­ri­ble skin com­plaint that made him look as though he had been coat­ed in corn­flakes; Pan­sy Parkin­son, to Hermiones de­light, missed all her lessons the fol­low­ing day as she had sprout­ed antlers.

Mean­while, it be­came clear just how many Skiv­ing Snack­box­es Fred and George had man­aged to sell be­fore leav­ing Hog­warts. Um­bridge on­ly had to en­ter her class­room for the stu­dents as­sem­bled there to faint, vom­it, de­vel­op dan­ger­ous fevers or else spout blood from both nos­trils. Shriek­ing with rage and frus­tra­tion, she at­tempt­ed to trace the mys­te­ri­ous symp­toms to their source, but the stu­dents told her stub­born­ly they were suf­fer­ing from 'Um­bridge -itis'. Af­ter putting four suc­ces­sive class­es in de­ten­tion and fail­ing to dis­cov­er their se­cret, she was forced to give up and al­low the bleed­ing, swoon­ing, sweat­ing and vom­it­ing stu­dents to leave her class­es in droves.

But not even the users of the Snack­box­es could com­pete with that mas­ter of chaos, Peeves, who seemed to have tak­en Fred's part­ing words deeply to heart. Cack­ling mad­ly, he soared through the school, up­end­ing ta­bles, burst­ing out of black­boards, top­pling stat­ues and vas­es; twice he shut Mrs. Nor­ris in­side a suit of ar­mour, from which she was res­cued, yowl­ing loud­ly, by the fu­ri­ous care­tak­er. Peeves smashed lanterns and snuffed out can­dles, jug­gled burn­ing torch­es over the heads of scream­ing stu­dents, caused neat­ly stacked piles of parch­ment to top­ple in­to fires or out of win­dows; flood­ed the sec­ond floor when he pulled off all the taps in the bath­rooms, dropped a bag of taran­tu­las in the mid­dle of the Great Hall dur­ing break­fast and, when­ev­er he fan­cied a break, spent hours at a time float­ing along af­ter Um­bridge and blow­ing loud rasp­ber­ries ev­ery time she spoke.

None of the staff but Filch seemed to be stir­ring them­selves to help her. In­deed, a week af­ter Fred and George's de­par­ture Har­ry wit­nessed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall walk­ing right past Peeves, who was de­ter­mined­ly loos­en­ing a crys­tal chan­de­lier, and could have sworn he heard her tell the poltergeist out of the cor­ner of her mouth, 'It un­screws the oth­er way.'

To cap mat­ters, Mon­tague had still not re­cov­ered from his so­journ in the toi­let; he re­mained con­fused and dis­ori­en­tat­ed and his par­ents were to be ob­served one Tues­day morn­ing strid­ing up the front drive, look­ing ex­treme­ly an­gry.

'Should we say some­thing?' said Hermione in a wor­ried voice, press­ing her cheek against the Charms win­dow so that she could see Mr and Mrs. Mon­tague march­ing in­side. 'About what hap­pened to him? In case it helps Madam Pom­frey cure him?'

'Course not, he'll re­cov­er,' said Ron in­dif­fer­ent­ly.

'Any­way, more trou­ble for Um­bridge, isn't it?' said Har­ry in a sat­is­fied voice.

He and Ron both tapped the teacups they were sup­posed to be charm­ing with their wands. Har­ry's spout­ed four very short legs that could not reach the desk and wrig­gled point­less­ly in midair. Ron's grew four very thin spindly legs that hoist­ed the cup off the desk with great dif­fi­cul­ty, trem­bled for a few sec­onds, then fold­ed, caus­ing the cup to crack in­to two.

'Reparo,' said Hermione quick­ly, mend­ing Ron's cup with a wave of her wand. That's all very well, but what if Mon­tague's per­ma­nent­ly in­jured?'

'Who cares?' said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly, while his teacup stood up drunk-​en­ly again, trem­bling vi­olent­ly at the knees. 'Mon­tague shouldn't have tried to take all those points from Gryffind­or, should he? If you want to wor­ry about any­one, Hermione, wor­ry about me!'

'You?' she said, catch­ing her teacup as it scam­pered hap­pi­ly away across the desk on four stur­dy lit­tle wil­low-​pat­terned legs, and re­plac­ing it in front of her. 'Why should I be wor­ried about you?'

'When Mum's next let­ter fi­nal­ly gets through Um­bridge's screen­ing pro­cess,' said Ron bit­ter­ly, now hold­ing his cup up while its frail legs tried fee­bly to sup­port its weight, 'I'm go­ing to be in deep trou­ble. I wouldn't be sur­prised if she's sent an­oth­er Howler.'

'But -'

'It'll be my fault Fred and George left, you wait,' said Ron dark­ly. 'She'll say I should've stopped them leav­ing, I should've grabbed the ends of their brooms and hung on or some­thing… yeah, it'll be all my fault.'

'Well, if she does say that it'll be very un­fair, you couldn't have done any­thing! But I'm sure she won't, I mean, if it's re­al­ly true they've got premis­es in Di­agon Al­ley, they must have been plan­ning this for ages.'

'Yeah, but that's an­oth­er thing, how did they get premis­es?' said Ron, hit­ting his teacup so hard with his wand that its legs col­lapsed again and it lay twitch­ing be­fore him. 'It's a bit dodgy isn't it? They'll need loads of Galleons to af­ford the rent on a place in Di­agon Al­ley. She'll want to know what they've been up to, to get their hands on that sort of gold.'

'Well, yes, that oc­curred to me, too,' said Hermione, al­low­ing her teacup to jog in neat lit­tle cir­cles around Har­ry's, whose stub­by lit­tle legs were still un­able to touch the desk­top, 'I've been won­der­ing whether Mundun­gus has per­suad­ed them to sell stolen goods or some­thing aw­ful.'

'He hasn't,' said Har­ry curt­ly.

'How do you know?' said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er.

'Be­cause -' Har­ry hes­itat­ed, but the mo­ment to con­fess fi­nal­ly seemed to have come. There was no good to be gained in keep­ing silent if it meant any­one sus­pect­ed that Fred and George were crim­inals. 'Be­cause they got the gold from me. I gave them my Tri­wiz­ard win­nings last June.'

There was a shocked si­lence, then Hermione's teacup jogged right over the edge of the desk and smashed on the floor.

'Oh, Har­ry, you didn't!' she said.

'Yes, I did,' said Har­ry muti­nous­ly. 'And I don't re­gret it, ei­ther. I didn't need the gold and they'll be great at run­ning a joke shop.'

'But this is ex­cel­lent!' said Ron, look­ing thrilled. 'It's all your fault, Har­ry - Mum can't blame me at all! Can I tell her?'

'Yeah, I sup­pose you'd bet­ter,' said Har­ry dul­ly, "spe­cial­ly if she thinks they're re­ceiv­ing stolen caul­drons or some­thing.'

Hermione said noth­ing at all for the rest of the les­son, but Har­ry had a shrewd sus­pi­cion that her self-​re­straint was bound to crack be­fore long. Sure enough, once they had left the cas­tle for break and were stand­ing around in the weak May sun­shine, she fixed Har­ry with a beady eye and opened her mouth with a de­ter­mined air.

Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed her be­fore she had even start­ed.

'It's no good nag­ging me, it's done,' he said firm­ly. 'Fred and George have got the gold - spent a good bit of it, too, by the sounds of it - and I can't get it back from them and I don't want to. So save your breath, Hermione.'

'I wasn't go­ing to say any­thing about Fred and George!' she said in an in­jured voice.

Ron snort­ed dis­be­liev­ing­ly and Hermione threw him a very dirty look.

'No, I wasn't!' she said an­gri­ly. 'As a mat­ter of fact, I was go­ing to ask Har­ry when he's go­ing to go back to Snape and ask for more Oc­clu­men­cy lessons!'

Har­ry's heart sank. Once they had ex­haust­ed the sub­ject of Fred and George's dra­mat­ic de­par­ture, which ad­mit­ted­ly had tak­en many hours, Ron and Hermione had want­ed to hear news of Sir­ius. As Har­ry had not con­fid­ed in them the rea­son he had want­ed to talk to Sir­ius in the first place, it had been hard to think of what to tell them; he had end­ed up say­ing, truth­ful­ly, that Sir­ius want­ed Har­ry to re­sume Oc­clu­men­cy lessons. He had been re­gret­ting this ev­er since; Hermione would not let the sub­ject drop and kept re­vert­ing to it when Har­ry least ex­pect­ed it.

'You can't tell me you've stopped hav­ing fun­ny dreams,' Hermione said now, 'be­cause Ron told me you were mut­ter­ing in your sleep again last night.'

Har­ry threw Ron a fu­ri­ous look. Ron had the grace to look ashamed of him­self.

'You were on­ly mut­ter­ing a bit,' he mum­bled apolo­get­ical­ly. 'Some­thing about “just a bit fur­ther”.'

'I dreamed I was watch­ing you lot play Quid­ditch,' Har­ry lied bru­tal­ly. 'I was try­ing to get you to stretch out a bit fur­ther to grab the Quaf­fle.'

Ron's ears went red. Har­ry felt a kind of vin­dic­tive plea­sure; he had not, of course, dreamed any­thing of the sort.

Last night, he had once again made the jour­ney along the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies cor­ri­dor. He had passed through the cir­cu­lar room, then the room full of click­ing and danc­ing light, un­til he found him­self again in­side that cav­ernous room full of shelves on which were ranged dusty glass spheres.

He had hur­ried straight to­wards row num­ber nine­ty-​sev­en, turned left and run along it… it had prob­ably been then that he had spo­ken aloud… just a bit fur­ther… for he felt his con­scious self strug­gling to wake… and be­fore he had reached the end of the row, he had found him­self ly­ing in bed again, gaz­ing up at the canopy of his four-​poster.

'You are try­ing to block your mind, aren't you?' said Hermione, look­ing bead­ily at Har­ry. 'You are keep­ing go­ing with your Oc­clu­men­cy?'

'Of course I am,' said Har­ry, try­ing to sound as though this ques­tion was in­sult­ing, but not quite meet­ing her eye. The truth was he was so in­tense­ly cu­ri­ous about what was hid­den in that room full of dusty orbs, that he was quite keen for the dreams to con­tin­ue.

The prob­lem was that with just un­der a month to go un­til the ex­ams and ev­ery free mo­ment de­vot­ed to re­vi­sion, his mind seemed so sat­urat­ed with in­for­ma­tion when he went to bed he found it very dif­fi­cult to get to sleep at all; and when he did, his over­wrought brain pre­sent­ed him most nights with stupid dreams about the ex­ams. He al­so sus­pect­ed that part of his mind - the part that of­ten spoke in Hermione's voice — now felt guilty on the oc­ca­sions it strayed down that cor­ri­dor end­ing in the black door, and sought to wake him be­fore he could reach the jour­neys end.

'You know,' said Ron, whose ears were still flam­ing red, 'if Mon­tague doesn't re­cov­er be­fore Slytherin play Huf­flepuff, we might be in with a chance of win­ning the Cup.'

'Yeah, I's'pose so,' said Har­ry, glad of a change of sub­ject.

'I mean, we've won one, lost one - if Slytherin lose to Huf­flepuff next Sat­ur­day -'

'Yeah, that's right,' said Har­ry, los­ing track of what he was agree­ing to. Cho Chang had just walked across the court­yard, de­ter­mined­ly not look­ing at him.

*

The fi­nal match of the Quid­ditch sea­son, Gryffind­or ver­sus Raven­claw, was to take place on the last week­end of May. Al­though Slytherin had been nar­row­ly de­feat­ed by Huf­flepuff in their last match, Gryffind­or were not dar­ing to hope for vic­to­ry, due main­ly (though of course no­body said it to him) to Ron's abysmal goal-​keep­ing record. He, how­ev­er, seemed to have found a new op­ti­mism.

'I mean, I can't get any worse, can I?' he told Har­ry and Hermione grim­ly over break­fast on the morn­ing of the match. 'Noth­ing to lose now, is there?'

'You know,' said Hermione, as she and Har­ry walked down to the pitch a lit­tle lat­er in the midst of a very ex­citable crowd, 'I think Ron might do bet­ter with­out Fred and George around. They nev­er ex­act­ly gave him a lot of con­fi­dence.'

Lu­na Love­good over­took them with what ap­peared to be a live ea­gle perched on top of her head.

'Oh, gosh, I for­got!' said Hermione, watch­ing the ea­gle flap­ping its wings as Lu­na walked serene­ly past a group of cack­ling and point­ing Slytherins. 'Cho will be play­ing, won't she?'

Har­ry, who had not for­got­ten this, mere­ly grunt­ed.

They found seats in the top­most row of the stands. It was a fine, clear day; Ron could not wish for bet­ter, and Har­ry found him­self hop­ing against hope that Ron would not give the Slytherins cause for more rous­ing cho­rus­es of 'Weasley is our King'.

Lee Jor­dan, who had been very dispir­it­ed since Fred and George had left, was com­men­tat­ing as usu­al. As the teams zoomed out on to the pitch he named the play­ers with some­thing less than his usu­al gus­to.

'… Bradley… Davies… Chang,' he said, and Har­ry felt his stom­ach per­form, less of a back flip, more a fee­ble lurch as Cho walked out on to the pitch, her shiny black hair rip­pling in the slight breeze. He was not sure what he want­ed to hap­pen any more, ex­cept that he could not stand any more rows. Even the sight of her chat­ting an­imat­ed­ly to Roger Davies as they pre­pared to mount their brooms caused him on­ly a slight twinge of jeal­ousy.

'And they're off!' said Lee. 'And Davies takes the Quaf­fle im­me­di­ate­ly, Raven­claw Cap­tain Davies with the Quaf­fle, he dodges John­son, he dodges Bell, he dodges Spin­net as well… he's go­ing straight for goal! He's go­ing to shoot - and - and -' Lee swore very loud­ly. 'And he's scored.'

Har­ry and Hermione groaned with the rest of the Gryffind­ors. Pre­dictably, hor­ri­bly, the Slytherins on the oth­er side of the stands be­gan to sing:

"Weasley can­not save a thing He can­not block a sin­gle ring…'

'Har­ry' said a hoarse voice in Har­rys ear. 'Hermione…'

Har­ry looked round and saw Ha­grid's enor­mous beard­ed face stick­ing be­tween the seats. Ap­par­ent­ly, he had squeezed his way all along the row be­hind, for the first- and sec­ond-​years he had just passed had a ruf­fled, flat­tened look about them. For some rea­son, Ha­grid was bent dou­ble as though anx­ious not to be seen, though he was still at least four feet taller than ev­ery­body else.

'Lis­ten,' he whis­pered, 'can yeh come with me? Now? While ev'ry­one's watchin' the match?'

'Er… can't it wait, Ha­grid?' asked Har­ry. Till the match is over?'

'No,' said Ha­grid. 'No, Har­ry, it's got­ta be now… while ev'ry­one's lookin' the oth­er way… please?'

Ha­grid's nose was gen­tly drip­ping blood. His eyes were both black­ened. Har­ry had not seen him this close-​up since his re­turn to the school; he looked ut­ter­ly woe­be­gone.

'Course,' said Har­ry at once, 'course we'll come.'

He and Hermione edged back along their row of seats, caus­ing much grum­bling among the stu­dents who had to stand up for them. The peo­ple in Ha­grid's row were not com­plain­ing, mere­ly at­tempt­ing to make them­selves as small as pos­si­ble.

'I 'ppre­ci­ate this, you two, I re­al­ly do,' said Ha­grid as they reached the stairs. He kept look­ing around ner­vous­ly as they de­scend­ed to­wards the lawn be­low. 'I jus' hope she doesn' no­tice us goin'.'

'You mean Um­bridge?' said Har­ry. 'She won't, she's got her whole In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad sit­ting with her, didn't you see? She must be ex­pect­ing trou­ble at the match.'

'Yeah, well, a bit o' trou­ble wouldn' hurt,' said Ha­grid, paus­ing to peer around the edge of the stands to make sure the stretch of lawn be­tween there and his cab­in was de­sert­ed. 'Give us more time.'

'What is it, Ha­grid?' said Hermione, look­ing up at him with a con­cerned ex­pres­sion on her face as they hur­ried across the grass to­wards the edge of the For­est.

'Yeh - yeh'll see in a mo',' said Ha­grid, look­ing over his shoul­der as a great roar rose from the stands be­hind them. 'Hey - did some­one jus' score?'

'It'll be Raven­claw,' said Har­ry heav­ily.

'Good… good…' said Ha­grid dis­tract­ed­ly. Tha's good…'

They had to jog to keep up with him as he strode across the lawn, look­ing around with ev­ery oth­er step. When they reached his cab­in, Hermione turned au­to­mat­ical­ly left to­wards the front door. Ha­grid, how­ev­er, walked straight past it in­to the shade of the trees on the out­er­most edge of the For­est, where he picked up a cross­bow that was lean­ing against a tree. When he re­alised they were no longer with him, he turned.

'We're goin' in here,' he said, jerk­ing his shag­gy head be­hind him.

'In­to the For­est?' said Hermione, per­plexed.

'Yeah,' said Ha­grid. 'C'mon now, quick, be­fore we're spot­ted!'

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er, then ducked in­to the cov­er of the trees be­hind Ha­grid, who was al­ready strid­ing away from them in­to the green gloom, his cross­bow over his arm. Har­ry and Hermione ran to catch up with him.

'Ha­grid, why are you armed?' said Har­ry.

'Jus' a pre­cau­tion,' said Ha­grid, shrug­ging his mas­sive shoul­ders.

'You didn't bring your cross­bow the day you showed us the Thes­trals,' said Hermione timid­ly.

'Nah, well, we weren' goin' in so far then,' said Ha­grid. 'An' any­way, tha' was be­fore Firen­ze left the For­est, wasn' it?'

'Why does Firen­ze leav­ing make a dif­fer­ence?' asked Hermione cu­ri­ous­ly.

'Cause the oth­er cen­taurs are good an' riled at me, tha's why,' said Ha­grid qui­et­ly, glanc­ing around. 'They used ter be - well, yeh couldn' call 'em friend­ly — but we got on all righ'. Kept 'em­selves to 'em­selves, bu' al­ways turned up if I want­ed a word. Not any more.'

He sighed deeply.

'Firen­ze said they're an­gry be­cause he went to work for Dum­ble­dore,' Har­ry said, trip­ping on a pro­trud­ing root be­cause he was busy watch­ing Ha­grid's pro­file.

'Yeah,' said Ha­grid heav­ily. 'Well, an­gry doesn' cov­er it. Rud­dy livid. If I hadn' stepped in, I reck­on they'd've kicked Firen­ze ter death -'

'They at­tacked him?' said Hermione, sound­ing shocked.

'Yep,' said Ha­grid gruffly, forc­ing his way through sev­er­al low-​hang­ing branch­es. 'He had half the herd on to him.'

'And you stopped it?' said Har­ry, amazed and im­pressed. 'By your­self?'

'Course I did, couldn't stand by an' watch 'em kill 'im, could I?' said Ha­grid. 'Lucky I was passin', re­al­ly… an' I'd've thought Firen­ze migh­ta re­mem­bered tha' be­fore he start­ed sendin' me stupid warnin's!' he added hot­ly and un­ex­pect­ed­ly.

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er, star­tled, but Ha­grid, scowl­ing, did not elab­orate.,

'Any­way,' he said, breath­ing a lit­tle more heav­ily than -usu­al, 'since then the oth­er cen­taurs've bin livid with me, an' the trou­ble is they've got a lot of in­flu­ence in the For­est… clever­est crea­tures in here.'

'Is that why we're here, Ha­grid?' asked Hermione. 'The cen­taurs?'

'Ah, no,' said Ha­grid, shak­ing his head dis­mis­sive­ly, 'no, it's not them. Well, o' course, they could com­pli­cate the prob­lem, yeah… but yeh'll see what I mean in a bit.'

On this in­com­pre­hen­si­ble note he fell silent and forged a lit­tle ahead, tak­ing one stride for ev­ery three of theirs, so that they had great trou­ble keep­ing up with him.

The path was be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly over­grown and the trees grew so close­ly to­geth­er as they walked fur­ther and fur­ther in­to the For­est that it was as dark as dusk. They were soon a long way past the clear­ing where Ha­grid had shown them the Thes­trals, but Har­ry felt no sense of un­ease un­til Ha­grid stepped un­ex­pect­ed­ly off the path and be­gan wend­ing his way in and out of trees to­wards the dark heart of the For­est.

'Ha­grid!' said Har­ry, fight­ing his way through thick­ly knot­ted bram­bles, over which Ha­grid had stepped with ease, and re­mem­ber­ing very vivid­ly what had hap­pened to him on the oth­er oc­ca­sion he had stepped off the For­est path. 'Where are we go­ing?'

'Bit fur­ther,' said Ha­grid over his shoul­der. 'C'mon, Har­ry… we need ter keep to­geth­er now.'

It was a great strug­gle to keep up with Ha­grid, what with branch­es and thick­ets of thorn through which Ha­grid marched as eas­ily as if they were cob­webs, but which snagged Har­ry and Hermione's robes, fre­quent­ly en­tan­gling them so severe­ly that they had to stop for min­utes at a time to free them­selves. Har­ry's arms and legs were soon cov­ered in small cuts and scratch­es. They were so deep in the For­est now that some­times all Har­ry could see of Ha­grid in the gloom was a mas­sive dark shape ahead of him. Any sound seemed threat­en­ing in the muf­fled si­lence. The break­ing of a twig echoed loud­ly and the tini­est rus­tle of move­ment, even though it might have been made by an in­no­cent spar­row, caused Har­ry to peer through the gloom for a cul­prit. It oc­curred to him that he had nev­er man­aged to get this far in­to the For­est with­out meet­ing some kind of crea­ture; their ab­sence struck him as rather omi­nous.

'Ha­grid, would it be all right if we lit our wands?' said Hermione qui­et­ly.

'Er… all righ',' Ha­grid whis­pered back. 'In fact -'

He stopped sud­den­ly and turned around; Hermione walked right in­to him and was knocked over back­wards. Har­ry caught her just be­fore she hit the For­est floor.

'Maybe we bes' jus' stop fer a mo­men', so I can… fill yeh in,' said Ha­grid. 'Be­fore we ge' there, like.'

'Good!' said Hermione, as Har­ry set her back on her feet. They both mur­mured 'Lu­mos!' and their wand-​tips ig­nit­ed. Ha­grid's face swam through the gloom by the light of the two wa­ver­ing beams and Har­ry saw again that he looked ner­vous and sad.

'Righ',' said Ha­grid. 'Well… see… the thing is…'

He took a great breath.

'Well, there's a good chance I'm goin' ter be get­tin' the sack any day now,' he said.

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er, then back at him.

'But you've last­ed this long -' Hermione said ten­ta­tive­ly. 'What makes you think -'

'Um­bridge reck­ons it was me that put tha' Nif­fler in her of­fice.'

'And was it?' said Har­ry, be­fore he could stop him­self.

'No, it rud­dy well wasn'!' said Ha­grid in­dig­nant­ly. 'On'y any-​thin' ter do with mag­ical crea­tures an' she thinks it's got some­thin' ter do with me. Yeh know she's bin lookin' fer a chance ter get rid of me ev­er since I got back. I don' wan' ter go, o' course, but if it wasn' fer… well… the spe­cial cir­cum­stances I'm abou' ter ex­plain to yeh, I'd leave righ' now, be­fore she's go' the chance ter do it in front o' the whole school, like she did with Trelawney.'

Har­ry and Hermione both made nois­es of protest, but Ha­grid over­rode them with a wave of one of his enor­mous hands.

'It's not the end o' the world, I'll be able ter help Dum­ble­dore once I'm out­ta here, I can be use­ful ter the Or­der. An' you lot'll have Grub­bly-​Plank, yeh'll - yeh'll get through yer ex­ams fine…"

His voice trem­bled and broke.

'Don' wor­ry abou' me,' he said hasti­ly, as Hermione made to pat his arm. He pulled his enor­mous spot­ted hand­ker­chief from the pock­et of his waist­coat and mopped his eyes with it. 'Look, I wouldn' be tellin' yer this at all if I didn' have ter. See, if I go… well, I can' leave with­ou'… with­ou' tellin' some­one… be­cause I'll - I'll need yeh two ter help me. An' Ron, if he's will­in'.'

'Of course we'll help you,' said Har­ry at once. 'What do you want us to do?'

Ha­grid gave a great sniff and pat­ted Har­ry word­less­ly on the shoul­der with such force Har­ry was knocked side­ways in­to a tree.

'1 knew yeh'd say yes,' said Ha­grid in­to his hand­ker­chief, 'but I won'… nev­er… for­get… well… c'mon… jus' a lit­tle bit fur­ther through here… watch yer­selves, now, there's net­tles…'

They walked on in si­lence for an­oth­er fif­teen min­utes; Har­ry had opened his mouth to ask how much fur­ther they had to go when Ha­grid threw out his right arm to sig­nal that they should stop.

'Re­al­ly easy' he said soft­ly. 'Very qui­et, now…'

They crept for­wards and Har­ry saw that they were fac­ing a large, smooth mound of earth near­ly as tall as Ha­grid that he thought, with a jolt of dread, was sure to be the lair of some enor­mous an­imal. Trees had been ripped up at the roots all around the mound, so that it stood on a bare patch of ground sur­round­ed by heaps of trunks and boughs that formed a kind of fence or bar­ri­cade, be­hind which Har­ry, Hermione and Ha­grid now stood.

'Sleepin',' breathed Ha­grid.

Sure enough, Har­ry could hear a dis­tant, rhyth­mic rum­bling that sound­ed like a pair of enor­mous lungs at work. He glanced side­ways at Hermione, who was gaz­ing at the mound with her mouth slight­ly open. She looked ut­ter­ly ter­ri­fied.

'Ha­grid,' she said in a whis­per bare­ly au­di­ble over the sound of the sleep­ing crea­ture, 'who is he?'

Har­ry found this an odd ques­tion… 'What is it?' was the one he had been plan­ning on ask­ing.

'Ha­grid, you told us -' said Hermione, her wand now shak­ing in her hand, 'you told us none of them want­ed to come!'

Har­ry looked from her to Ha­grid and then, as re­al­isa­tion hit him, he looked back at the mound with a small gasp of hor­ror.

The great mound of earth, on which he, Hermione and Ha­grid could eas­ily have stood, was mov­ing slow­ly up and down in time with the deep, grunt­ing breath­ing. It was not a mound at all. It was the curved back of what was clear­ly —

'Well - no - he didn' want ter come,' said Ha­grid, sound­ing des­per­ate. 'But I had ter bring him, Hermione, I had ter!'

'But why?' asked Hermione, who sound­ed as though she want­ed to cry. 'Why - what - oh, Ha­gridr

'I knew if I jus' got him back,' said Ha­grid, sound­ing close to tears him­self, 'an' - an' taught him a few man­ners - I'd be able ter take him out­side an' show ev'ry­one he's harm­less!'

'Harm­less!' said Hermione shril­ly, and Ha­grid made fran­tic hush­ing nois­es with his hands as the enor­mous crea­ture be­fore them grunt­ed loud­ly and shift­ed in its sleep. 'He's been hurt­ing you all this time, hasn't he? That's why you've had all these in­juries!'

'He don' know his own strength!' said Ha­grid earnest­ly. 'An' he's get­tin' bet­ter, he's not fight­in' so much any more —'

'So, this is why it took you two months to get home!' said Hermione dis­tract­ed­ly. 'Oh, Ha­grid, why did you bring him back if he didn't want to come? Wouldn't he have been hap­pi­er with his own peo­ple?'

They were all bul­lyin' him, Hermione, 'cause he's so small!' said Ha­grid.

'Small?' said Hermione. 'Small?'

'Hermione, I couldn' leave him,' said Ha­grid, tears now trick­ling down his bruised face in­to his beard. 'See - he's my broth­er!'

Hermione sim­ply stared at him, her mouth open.

'Ha­grid, when you say “broth­er”,' said Har­ry slow­ly, 'do you mean —?'

'Well - half-​broth­er,' amend­ed Ha­grid. Turns put me moth­er took up with an­oth­er gi­ant when she left me dad, an' she went an' had Grawp here -'

'Grawp?' said Har­ry.

'Yeah… well, tha's what it sounds like when he says his name,' said Ha­grid anx­ious­ly. 'He don' speak a lot of En­glish… I've bin tryin' ter teach him… any­way, she don' seem ter have liked him much more'n she liked me. See, with gi­antess­es, what counts is pro­ducin' good big kids, and he's al­ways been a bit on the runty side fer a gi­ant - on'y six­teen foot -'

'Oh, yes, tiny!' said Hermione, with a kind of hys­ter­ical sar­casm. 'Ab­so­lute­ly mi­nus­cule!'

'He was bein' kicked aroun' by all o' them - I jus' couldn' leave him -'

'Did Madame Maxime want to bring him back?' asked Har­ry.

'She - well, she could see it was right im­por­tan' ter me,' said Ha­grid, twist­ing his enor­mous hands. 'Bu' - bu' she got a bit tired o' him af­ter a while, I must ad­mit… so we split up on the jour­ney home… she promised not ter tell any­one, though…"

'How on earth did you get him back with­out any­one notic­ing?' said Har­ry.

'Well, tha's why it took so long, see,' said Ha­grid. 'Could on'y trav­el by nigh' an' through wild coun­try an' stuff. Course, he cov­ers the ground pret­ty well when he wants ter, but he kep' wantin' ter go back.'

'Oh, Ha­grid, why on earth didn't you let him!' said Hermione, flop­ping down on to a ripped up tree and bury­ing her face in her hands. 'What do you think you're go­ing to do with a vi­olent gi­ant who doesn't even want to be here!'

'Well, now - “vi­olent” - tha's a bit harsh,' said Ha­grid, still twist­ing his hands ag­itat­ed­ly. Til ad­mit he migh­ta tak­en a cou­ple o' swings at me when he's bin in a bad mood, but he's get­tin' bet­ter, loads bet­ter, set­tlin' down well.'

'What are those ropes for, then?' Har­ry asked.

He had just no­ticed ropes thick as saplings stretch­ing from around the trunks of the largest near­by trees to­wards the place where Grawp lay curled on the ground with his back to them.

'You have to keep him tied up?' said Hermione faint­ly.

'Well… yeah…' said Ha­grid, look­ing anx­ious. 'See - it's like I say - he doesn' re­al­ly know 'is own strength.'

Har­ry un­der­stood now why there had been such a sus­pi­cious lack of any oth­er liv­ing crea­ture in this part of the For­est.

'So, what is it you want Har­ry and Ron and me to do?' Hermione asked ap­pre­hen­sive­ly.

'Look af­ter him,' said Ha­grid croak­ily. 'Af­ter I'm gone.'

Har­ry and Hermione ex­changed mis­er­able looks, Har­ry un­com­fort­ably aware that he had al­ready promised Ha­grid that he would do what­ev­er he asked.

'What - what does that in­volve, ex­act­ly?' Hermione en­quired.

'Not food or any­thin'!' said Ha­grid ea­ger­ly. 'He can get his own food, no prob­lem. Birds an' deer an' stuff… no, it's com­pa­ny he needs. If I jus' knew some­one was car­ryin' on tryin' ter help him a bit… teachin' him, yeh know.'

Har­ry said noth­ing, but turned to look back at the gi­gan­tic form ly­ing asleep on the ground in front of them. Un­like Ha­grid, who sim­ply looked like an over­sized hu­man, Grawp looked strange­ly mis­shapen. What Har­ry had tak­en to be a vast mossy boul­der to the left of the great earth­en mound he now recog­nised as Grawp's head. It was much larg­er in pro­por­tion to the body than a hu­man head, and was al­most per­fect­ly round and cov­ered with tight­ly curl­ing, close-​grow­ing hair the colour of brack­en. The rim of a sin­gle large, fleshy ear was vis­ible on top of the head, which seemed to sit, rather like Un­cle Ver­non's, di­rect­ly up­on the shoul­ders with lit­tle or no neck in be­tween. The back, un­der what looked like a dirty brown­ish smock com­prised of an­imal skins sewn rough­ly to­geth­er, was very broad; and as Grawp slept, it seemed to strain a lit­tle at the rough seams of the skins. The legs were curled up un­der the body. Har­ry could see the soles of enor­mous, filthy, bare feet, large as sledges, rest­ing one on top of the oth­er on the earthy For­est floor.

'You want us to teach him,' Har­ry said in a hol­low voice. He now un­der­stood what Firen­ze's warn­ing had meant. His at­tempt is not work­ing. He would do bet­ter to aban­don it. Of course, the oth­er crea­tures who lived in the For­est would have heard Ha­grids fruit­less at­tempts to teach Grawp En­glish.

'Yeah - even if yeh jus' talk ter him a bit,' said Ha­grid hope­ful­ly. "Cause I reck­on, if he can talk ter peo­ple, he'll un­der­stand more that we all like 'im re­al­ly, an' want 'im ter stay.'

Har­ry looked at Hermione, who peered back at him from be­tween the fin­gers over her face.

'Kind of makes you wish we had Nor­bert back, doesn't it?' he said, and she gave a very shaky laugh.

'Yeh'll do it, then?' said Ha­grid, who did not seem to have caught what Har­ry had just said.

'We'll…' said Har­ry, al­ready bound by his promise. 'We'll try, Ha­grid.'

'I knew I could count on yeh, Har­ry,' Ha­grid said, beam­ing in a very wa­tery way and dab­bing at his face with his hand­ker­chief again. 'An' I don' wan1 yeh ter put yer­self out too much, like… I know yeh've got ex­ams… if yeh could jus' nip down here in yer In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak maybe once a week an' have a lit­tle chat with 'im. I'll wake 'im up, then - in­tro­duce yeh -'

'Wha— no!' said Hermione, jump­ing up. 'Ha­grid, no, don't wake him, re­al­ly, we don't need -'

But Ha­grid had al­ready stepped over the great tree trunk in front of them and was pro­ceed­ing to­wards Grawp. When he was about ten feet away, he lift­ed a long, bro­ken bough from the ground, smiled re­as­sur­ing­ly over his shoul­der at Har­ry and Hermione, then poked Grawp hard in the mid­dle of the back with the end of the bough.

The gi­ant gave a roar that echoed around the silent For­est; birds in the tree­tops over­head rose twit­ter­ing from their perch­es and soared away. In front of Har­ry and Hermione, mean­while, the gi­gan­tic Grawp was ris­ing from the ground, which shud­dered as he placed an enor­mous hand up­on it to push him­self on to his knees. He turned his head to see who and what had dis­turbed him.

'All righ', Graw­py?' said Ha­grid, in a would-​be cheery voice, back­ing away with the long bough raised, ready to poke Grawp again. 'Had a nice sleep, eh?'

Har­ry and Hermione re­treat­ed as far as they could while still keep­ing the gi­ant with­in their sights. Grawp knelt be­tween two trees he had not yet up­root­ed. They looked up in­to his startling­ly huge face that re­sem­bled a grey full moon swim­ming in the gloom of the clear­ing. It was as though the fea­tures had been hewn on to a great stone ball. The nose was stub­by and shape­less, the mouth lop­sid­ed and full of mis­shapen yel­low teeth the size of half-​bricks; the eyes, small by gi­ant stan­dards, were a mud­dy green­ish-​brown and just now were half-​gummed to­geth­er with sleep. Grawp raised dirty knuck­les, each as big as a crick­et ball, to his eyes, rubbed vig­or­ous­ly, then, with­out warn­ing, pushed him­self to his feet with sur­pris­ing speed and agili­ty.

'Oh my!' Har­ry heard Hermione squeal, ter­ri­fied, be­side him.

The trees to which the oth­er ends of the ropes around Grawp's wrists and an­kles were at­tached creaked omi­nous­ly. He was, as

Ha­grid had said, at least six­teen feet tall. Gaz­ing bleari­ly around, Grawp reached out a hand the size of a beach um­brel­la, seized a bird's nest from the up­per branch­es of a tow­er­ing pine and turned it up­side-​down with a roar of ap­par­ent dis­plea­sure that there was no bird in it; eggs fell like grenades to­wards the ground and Ha­grid threw his arms over his head to pro­tect him­self.

'Any­way, Graw­py,' shout­ed Ha­grid, look­ing up ap­pre­hen­sive­ly in case of fur­ther falling eggs, 'I've brought some friends ter meet yeh. Re­mem­ber, I told yeh I might? Re­mem­ber, when I said I might have ter go on a lit­tle trip an' leave them ter look af­ter yeh fer a bit? Re­mem­ber that, Graw­py?'

But Grawp mere­ly gave an­oth­er low roar; it was hard to say whether he was lis­ten­ing to Ha­grid or whether he even recog­nised the sounds Ha­grid was mak­ing as speech. He had now seized the top of the pine tree and was pulling it to­wards him, ev­ident­ly for the sim­ple plea­sure of see­ing how far it would spring back when he let go.

'Now, Graw­py, don' do that!' shout­ed Ha­grid. 'Tha's how you end­ed up pullin' up the oth­ers -'

And sure enough, Har­ry could see the earth around the tree's roots be­gin­ning to crack.

'I got com­pa­ny for yeh!' Ha­grid shout­ed. 'Com­pa­ny, see! Look down, yeh big buf­foon, I brought yeh some friends!'

'Oh, Ha­grid, don't,' moaned Hermione, but Ha­grid had al­ready raised the bough again and gave Grawp's knee a sharp poke.

The gi­ant let go of the top of the tree, which swayed alarm­ing­ly and del­uged Ha­grid with a rain of pine nee­dles, and looked down.

This,' said Ha­grid, has­ten­ing over to where Har­ry and Hermione stood, 'is Har­ry, Grawp! Har­ry Pot­ter! He migh' be comin' ter vis­it yeh if I have ter go away, un­der­stand?'

The gi­ant had on­ly just re­alised that Har­ry and Hermione were there. They watched, in great trep­ida­tion, as he low­ered his huge boul­der of a head so that he could peer bleari­ly at them.

'An' this is Hermione, see? Her—' Ha­grid hes­itat­ed. Turn­ing to Hermione, he said, 'Would yeh mind if he called yeh Hermy, Hermione? On'y it's a dif­fi­cult name fer him ter re­mem­ber.'

'No, not at all,' squeaked Hermione.

This is Hermy, Grawp! An' she's gonna be comin' an' all! Is'n' tha' nice? Eh? Two friends fer yeh ter - GRAW­PY, NO!'

Grawp's hand had shot out of nowhere to­wards Hermione; Har­ry seized her and pulled her back­wards be­hind the tree, so that Grawp's fist scraped the trunk but closed on thin air.

'BAD BOY, GRAW­PY!' they heard Ha­grid yelling, as Hermione clung to Har­ry be­hind the tree, shak­ing and whim­per­ing. 'VERY BAD BOY! YEH DON' GRAB - OUCH!'

Har­ry poked his head out from around the trunk and saw Ha­grid ly­ing on his back, his hand over his nose. Grawp, ap­par­ent­ly los­ing in­ter­est, had straight­ened up and was again en­gaged in pulling back the pine as far as it would go.

'Righ',' said Ha­grid thick­ly, get­ting up with one hand pinch­ing his bleed­ing nose and the oth­er grasp­ing his cross­bow, 'well… there yeh are… yeh've met him an' - an' now he'll know yeh when yeh come back. Yeah… well…'

He looked up at Grawp, who was now pulling back the pine with an ex­pres­sion of de­tached plea­sure on his boul­der­ish face; the roots were creak­ing as he ripped them away from the ground.

'Well, I reck­on tha's enough fer one day,' said Ha­grid. 'We'll -er - we'll go back now, shall we?'

Har­ry and Hermione nod­ded. Ha­grid shoul­dered his cross­bow again and, still pinch­ing his nose, led the way back in­to the trees.

No­body spoke for a while, not even when they heard the dis­tant crash that meant Grawp had pulled over the pine tree at last. Hermione's face was pale and set. Har­ry could not think of a sin­gle thing to say. What on earth was go­ing to hap­pen when some­body found out that Ha­grid had hid­den Grawp in the For­bid­den For­est? And he had promised that he, Ron and Hermione would con­tin­ue Ha­grid's to­tal­ly point­less at­tempts to civilise the gi­ant. How could Ha­grid, even with his im­mense ca­pac­ity to de­lude him­self that fanged mon­sters were love­ably harm­less, fool him­self that Grawp would ev­er be fit to mix with hu­mans?

'Hold it,' said Ha­grid abrupt­ly, just as Har­ry and Hermione were strug­gling through a patch of thick knot­grass be­hind him. He pulled an ar­row out of the quiver over his shoul­der and fit­ted it in­to the cross­bow. Har­ry and Hermione raised their wands; now that they had stopped walk­ing, they, too, could hear move­ment close by.

'Oh, blimey' said Ha­grid qui­et­ly.

'I thought we told you, Ha­grid,' said a deep male voice, 'that you are no longer wel­come here?'

A man's naked tor­so seemed for an in­stant to be float­ing to­wards them through the dap­pled green half-​light; then they saw that his waist joined smooth­ly in­to a horse's chest­nut body. This cen­taur had a proud, high-​cheek­boned face and long black hair. Like Ha­grid, he was armed; a quiv­er­ful of ar­rows and a long­bow were slung over his shoul­ders.

'How are yeh, Mago­ri­an?' said Ha­grid war­ily.

The trees be­hind the cen­taur rus­tled and four or five more cen­taurs emerged be­hind him. Har­ry recog­nised the black-​bod­ied and beard­ed Bane, whom he had met near­ly four years ago on the same night he had met Firen­ze. Bane gave no sign that he had ev­er seen Har­ry be­fore.

'So,' he said, with a nasty in­flec­tion in his voice, be­fore turn­ing im­me­di­ate­ly to Mago­ri­an. 'We agreed, I think, what we would do if this hu­man ev­er showed his face in the For­est again?'

'This hu­man" now, am I?' said Ha­grid testi­ly. 'Jus' fer stop­pin' all of yeh com­mit­tin' mur­der?'

'You ought not to have med­dled, Ha­grid,' said Mago­ri­an. 'Our ways are not yours, nor are our laws. Firen­ze has be­trayed and dis­hon­oured us.'

'I dun­no how yeh'work that out,' said Ha­grid im­pa­tient­ly. 'He's done noth­in' ex­cept help Al­bus Dum­ble­dore -'

'Firen­ze has en­tered in­to servi­tude to hu­mans,' said a grey cen­taur with a hard, deeply lined face.

'Servi­tude!' said Ha­grid scathing­ly. 'He's doin' Dum­ble­dore a favour is all -'

'He is ped­dling our knowl­edge and se­crets among hu­mans,' said Mago­ri­an qui­et­ly. There can be no re­turn from such dis­grace.'

'If yeh say so,' said Ha­grid, shrug­ging, 'but per­son­al­ly I think yeh're makin' a big mis­take -'

'As are you, hu­man,' said Bane, 'com­ing back in­to our For­est when we warned you -'

'Now, yeh lis­ten ter me,' said Ha­grid an­gri­ly. Til have less of the

'our" For­est, if it's all the same ter yeh. It's not up ter yeh who comes an' goes in here -'

'No more is it up to you, Ha­grid,' said Mago­ri­an smooth­ly. 'I shall let you pass to­day be­cause you are ac­com­pa­nied by your young —'

They're not his!' in­ter­rupt­ed Bane con­temp­tu­ous­ly. 'Stu­dents, Mago­ri­an, from up at the school! They have prob­ably al­ready prof­it­ed from the traitor Firen­ze's teach­ings.'

'Nev­er­the­less,' said Mago­ri­an calm­ly, 'the slaugh­ter of foals is a ter­ri­ble crime - we do not touch the in­no­cent. To­day, Ha­grid, you pass. Hence­forth, stay away from this place. You for­feit­ed the friend­ship of the cen­taurs when you helped the traitor Firen­ze es­cape us.'

'I won' be kept out­ta the Fores' by a bunch o' old mules like yeh!' said Ha­grid loud­ly.

'Ha­grid,' said Hermione in a high-​pitched and ter­ri­fied voice, as both Bane and the grey cen­taur pawed at the ground, 'let's go, please let's go!'

Ha­grid moved for­wards, but his cross­bow was still raised and his eyes were still fixed threat­en­ing­ly up­on Mago­ri­an.

'We know what you are keep­ing in the For­est, Ha­grid!' Mago­ri­an called af­ter them, as the cen­taurs slipped out of sight. 'And our tol­er­ance is wan­ing!'

Ha­grid turned and gave ev­ery ap­pear­ance of want­ing to walk straight back to Mago­ri­an.

'Yeh'll tol­er­ate 'im as long as he's here, it's as much his For­est as yours!' he yelled, as Har­ry and Hermione both pushed with all their might against Ha­grid's mole­skin waist­coat in an ef­fort to keep him mov­ing for­wards. Still scowl­ing, he looked down; his ex­pres­sion changed to mild sur­prise at the sight of them both push­ing him; he seemed not to have felt it.

'Calm down, you two,' he said, turn­ing to walk on while they pant­ed along be­hind him. 'Rud­dy old mules, though, eh?'

'Ha­grid,' said Hermione breath­less­ly, skirt­ing the patch of net­tles they had passed on their way there, 'if the cen­taurs don't want hu­mans in the For­est, it doesn't re­al­ly look as though Har­ry and I will be able -'

'Ah, you heard what they said, 'said Ha­grid dis­mis­sive­ly, 'they wouldn't hurt foals - I mean, kids. Any­way, we can' let our­selves be pushed aroun' by that lot.'

'Nice try,' Har­ry mur­mured to Hermione, who looked crest­fall­en.

At last they re­joined the path and, af­ter an­oth­er ten min­utes, the trees be­gan to thin; they were able to see patch­es of clear blue sky again and, in the dis­tance, the def­inite sounds of cheer­ing and shout­ing.

'Was that an­oth­er goal?' asked Ha­grid, paus­ing in the shel­ter of the trees as the Quid­ditch sta­di­um came in­to view. 'Or d'yeh reck­on the match is over?'

'I don't know,' said Hermione mis­er­ably. Har­ry saw that she looked much the worse for wear; her hair was full of twigs and leaves, her robes were ripped in sev­er­al places and there were nu­mer­ous scratch­es on her face and arms. He knew he must look lit­tle bet­ter.

'I reck­on it's over, yeh know!' said Ha­grid, still squint­ing to­wards the sta­di­um. 'Look - there's peo­ple comin' out al­ready - if yeh two hur­ry yeh'll be able ter blend in with the crowd an' no one'll know yeh weren't there!'

'Good idea,' said Har­ry. 'Well… see you lat­er, then, Ha­grid.'

'I don't be­lieve him,' said Hermione in a very un­steady voice, the mo­ment they were out of earshot of Ha­grid. 'I don't be­lieve him. I re­al­ly don't be­lieve him.'

'Calm down,' said Har­ry.

'Calm down!' she said fever­ish­ly. 'A gi­ant! A gi­ant in the For­est! And we're sup­posed to give him En­glish lessons! Al­ways as­sum­ing, of course, we can get past the herd of mur­der­ous cen­taurs on the way in and out! I - don't - be­lieve - him!'

'We haven't got to do any­thing yet!' Har­ry tried to re­as­sure her in a qui­et voice, as they joined a stream of jab­ber­ing Huf­flepuffs head­ing back to­wards the cas­tle. 'He's not ask­ing us to do any­thing un­less he gets chucked out and that might not even hap­pen.'

'Oh, come off it, Har­ry!' said Hermione an­gri­ly, stop­ping dead in her tracks so that the peo­ple be­hind had to swerve to avoid her. 'Of course he's go­ing to be chucked out and, to be per­fect­ly hon­est, af­ter what we've just seen, who can blame Um­bridge?'

There was a pause in which Har­ry glared at her, and her eyes filled slow­ly with tears.

'You didn't mean that,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

'No… well… all right… I didn't,' she said, wip­ing her eyes an­gri­ly. 'But why does he have to make life so dif­fi­cult for him­self - for us?'

'I dun­no -'

'Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didn't let the Quaf­fle in, Weasley is our King…"

'And I wish they'd stop singing that stupid song,' said Hermione mis­er­ably, 'haven't they gloat­ed enough?'

A great tide of stu­dents was mov­ing up the slop­ing lawns from the pitch.

'Oh, let's get in be­fore we have to meet the Slytherins,' said Hermione.

'Weasley can save any­thing, He nev­er leaves a sin­gle ring, That's why.Gryffind­ors all sing: Weasley is our King.'

'Hermione…' said Har­ry slow­ly.

The song was grow­ing loud­er, but it was is­su­ing not from a crowd of green-​and-​sil­ver-​clad Slytherins, but from a mass of red and gold mov­ing slow­ly to­wards the cas­tle, bear­ing a soli­tary fig­ure up­on its many shoul­ders.

'Weasley is our King, Weasley is our King, He didn't let the Quaf­fle in, Weasley is our King…"

'No?' said Hermione in a hushed voice.

'YES!' said Har­ry loud­ly.

'HAR­RY! HERMIONE!' yelled Ron, wav­ing the sil­ver Quid­ditch cup in the air and look­ing quite be­side him­self. 'WE DID IT! WE WON!'

They beamed up at him as he passed. There was a scrum at the door of the cas­tle and Ron's head got rather bad­ly bumped on the lin­tel, but no­body seemed to want to put him down. Still singing, the crowd squeezed it­self in­to the En­trance Hall and out of sight. Har­ry and Hermione watched them go, beam­ing, un­til the last echo­ing strains of 'Weasley is our King' died away. Then they turned to each oth­er, their smiles fad­ing.

'We'll save our news till to­mor­row, shall we?' said Har­ry.

'Yes, all right,' said Hermione weari­ly. 'I'm not in any hur­ry.'

They climbed the steps to­geth­er. At the front doors both in­stinc­tive­ly looked back at the For­bid­den For­est. Har­ry was not sure whether or not it was his imag­ina­tion, but he rather thought he saw a small cloud of birds erupt­ing in­to the air over the tree tops in the dis­tance, al­most as though the tree in which they had been nest­ing had just been pulled up by the roots.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 31 - O.W.L.s


Ron's eu­pho­ria at help­ing Gryffind­or scrape the Quid­ditch cup was such that he couldn't set­tle to any­thing next day. All he want­ed to do was talk over the match, so Har­ry and Hermione found it very dif­fi­cult to find an open­ing in which to men­tion Grawp. Not that ei­ther of them tried very hard; nei­ther was keen to be the one to bring Ron back to re­al­ity in quite such a bru­tal fash­ion. As it was an­oth­er fine, warm day, they per­suad­ed him to join them in re­vis­ing un­der the beech tree at the edge of the lake, where they had less chance of be­ing over­heard than in the com­mon room. Ron was not par­tic­ular­ly keen on this idea at first - he was thor­ough­ly en­joy­ing be­ing pat­ted on the back by ev­ery Gryffind­or who walked past his chair, not to men­tion the oc­ca­sion­al out­bursts of 'Weasley is our King' - but af­ter a while he agreed that some fresh air might do him good.

They spread their books out in the shade of the beech tree and sat down while Ron talked them through his first save of the match for what felt like the dozenth time.

'Well, I mean, I'd al­ready let in that one of Davies's, so I wasn't feel­ing all that con­fi­dent, but I dun­no, when Bradley came to­wards me, just out of nowhere, I thought - you can do this! And I had about a sec­ond to de­cide which way to fly, you know, be­cause he looked like he was aim­ing for the right goal­hoop - my right, ob­vi­ous­ly, his left - but I had a fun­ny feel­ing that he was feint­ing, and so I took the chance and flew left - his right, I mean - and - well - you saw what hap­pened,' he con­clud­ed mod­est­ly, sweep­ing his hair back quite un­nec­es­sar­ily so that it looked in­ter­est­ing­ly windswept and glanc­ing around to see whether the peo­ple near­est to them — a bunch of gos­sip­ing third-​year Huf­flepuffs — had heard him. 'And then, when Cham­bers came at me about five min­utes lat­er - What?' Ron asked, hav­ing stopped mid-​sen­tence at the look on Har­ry's face. 'Why are you grin­ning?'

'I'm not,' said Har­ry quick­ly, and looked down at his Trans­fig­ura­tion notes, at­tempt­ing to straight­en his face. The truth was that Ron had just re­mind­ed Har­ry forcibly of an­oth­er Gryffind­or Quid­ditch play­er who had once sat rum­pling his hair un­der this very tree. 'I'm just glad we won, that's all.'

'Yeah,' said Ron slow­ly, savour­ing the words, 'we won. Did you see the look on Changs face when Gin­ny got the Snitch right out from un­der her nose?'

'I sup­pose she cried, did she?' said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

'Well, yeah - more out of tem­per than any­thing, though…' Ron frowned slight­ly. 'But you saw her chuck her broom away when she got back to the ground, didn't you?'

'Er -' said Har­ry.

'Well, ac­tu­al­ly… no, Ron,' said Hermione with a heavy sigh, putting down her book and look­ing at him apolo­get­ical­ly. 'As a mat­ter of fact, the on­ly bit of the match Har­ry and I saw was Davies's first goal.'

Ron's care­ful­ly ruf­fled hair seemed to wilt with dis­ap­point­ment. 'You didn't watch?' he said faint­ly, look­ing from one to the oth­er. 'You didn't see me make any of those saves?'

'Well - no,' said Hermione, stretch­ing out a pla­ca­to­ry hand to­wards him. 'But Ron, we didn't want to leave — we had to!'

'Yeah?' said Ron, whose face was grow­ing rather red. 'How come?'

'It was Ha­grid,' said Har­ry. 'He de­cid­ed to tell us why he's been cov­ered in in­juries ev­er since he got back from the gi­ants. He want­ed us to go in­to the For­est with him, we had no choice, you know how he gets. Any­way…'

The sto­ry was told in five min­utes, by the end of which Ron's in­dig­na­tion had been re­placed by a look of to­tal in­creduli­ty.

'He brought one back and hid it in the For­est?'

'Yep,' said Har­ry grim­ly.

'No,' said Ron, as though by say­ing this he could make it un­true. 'No, he can't have.'

'Well, he has,' said Hermione firm­ly. 'Grawp's about six­teen feet tall, en­joys rip­ping up twen­ty-​foot pine trees, and knows me,' she snort­ed, 'as Hermy.'

Ron gave a ner­vous laugh.

'And Ha­grid wants us to… ?'

Teach him En­glish, yeah,' said Har­ry.

'He's lost his mind,' said Ron in an al­most awed voice.

'Yes,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, turn­ing a page of In­ter­me­di­ate Trans­fig­ura­tion and glar­ing at a se­ries of di­agrams show­ing an owl turn­ing in­to a pair of opera glass­es. 'Yes, I'm start­ing to think he has. But, un­for­tu­nate­ly, he made Har­ry and me promise.'

'Well, you're just go­ing to have to break your promise, that's all,' said Ron firm­ly. 'I mean, come on… we've got ex­ams and we're about that far -' he held up his hand to show thumb and fore­fin­ger al­most touch­ing '- from be­ing chucked out as it is. And any­way… re­mem­ber Nor­bert? Re­mem­ber Ar­agog? Have we ev­er come off bet­ter for mix­ing with any of Ha­grid's mon­ster mates?'

'I know, it's just that - we promised,' said Hermione in a small voice.

Ron smoothed his hair flat again, look­ing pre­oc­cu­pied.

'Well,' he sighed, 'Ha­grid hasn't been sacked yet, has he? He's hung on this long, maybe he'll hang on till the end of term and we won't have to go near Grawp at all.'

*

The cas­tle grounds were gleam­ing in the sun­light as though fresh­ly paint­ed; the cloud­less sky smiled at it­self in the smooth­ly sparkling lake; the satin green lawns rip­pled oc­ca­sion­al­ly in a gen­tle breeze. June had ar­rived, but to the fifth-​years this meant on­ly one thing: their OWLs were up­on them at last.

Their teach­ers were no longer set­ting them home­work; lessons were de­vot­ed to re­vis­ing those top­ics the teach­ers thought most like­ly to come up in the ex­ams. The pur­pose­ful, fever­ish at­mo­sphere drove near­ly ev­ery­thing but the OWLs from Har­ry's mind, though he did won­der oc­ca­sion­al­ly dur­ing Po­tions lessons whether Lupin had ev­er told Snape that he must con­tin­ue giv­ing Har­ry Oc­clu­men­cy tu­ition. If he had, then Snape had ig­nored Lupin as thor­ough­ly as he was now ig­nor­ing Har­ry. This suit­ed Har­ry very

UWLS OZJ

well; he was quite busy and tense enough with­out ex­tra class­es with Snape, and to his re­lief Hermione was much too pre­oc­cu­pied these days to bad­ger him about Oc­clu­men­cy; she was spend­ing a lot of time mut­ter­ing to her­self, and had not laid out any elf clothes for days.

She was not the on­ly per­son act­ing odd­ly as the OWLs drew steadi­ly near­er. Ernie Macmil­lan had de­vel­oped an ir­ri­tat­ing habit of in­ter­ro­gat­ing peo­ple about their re­vi­sion prac­tices.

'How many hours d'you think you're do­ing a day?' he de­mand­ed of Har­ry and Ron as they queued out­side Her­bol­ogy, a man­ic gleam in his eyes.

'I dun­no,' said Ron. 'A few.'

'More or less than eight?'

'Less, I's'pose,' said Ron, look­ing slight­ly alarmed.

'I'm do­ing eight,' said Ernie, puff­ing out his chest. 'Eight or nine. I'm get­ting an hour in be­fore break­fast ev­ery day. Eights my av­er­age. I can do ten on a good week­end day. I did nine and a half on Mon­day. Not so good on Tues­day - on­ly sev­en and a quar­ter. Then on Wednes­day -'

Har­ry was deeply thank­ful that Pro­fes­sor Sprout ush­ered them in­to green­house three at that point, forc­ing Ernie to aban­don his recital.

Mean­while, Dra­co Mal­foy had found a dif­fer­ent way to in­duce pan­ic.

'Of course, it's not what you know,' he was heard to tell Crabbe and Goyle loud­ly out­side Po­tions a few days be­fore the ex­ams were to start, 'it's who you know. Now, Fa­ther's been friend­ly with the head of the Wiz­ard­ing Ex­am­ina­tions Au­thor­ity for years — old Grisel­da March­banks - we've had her round for din­ner and ev­ery­thing…'

'Do you think that's true?' Hermione whis­pered in alarm to Har­ry and Ron.

'Noth­ing we can do about it if it is,' said Ron gloomi­ly.

'I don't think it's true,' said Neville qui­et­ly from be­hind them. 'Be­cause Grisel­da March­banks is a friend of my gran's, and she's nev­er men­tioned the Mal­foys.'

'What's she like, Neville?' asked Hermione at once. 'Is she strict?'

'Well, he has,' said Hermione firm­ly. 'Grawp's about six­teen feet tall, en­joys rip­ping up twen­ty-​foot pine trees, and knows me,' she snort­ed, 'as Hermy.'

Ron gave a ner­vous laugh. .•;

'And Ha­grid wants us to…?'

Teach him En­glish, yeah,' said Har­ry.

'He's lost his mind,' said Ron in an al­most awed voice.

'Yes,' said Hermione ir­ri­ta­bly, turn­ing a page of In­ter­me­di­ate Trans­fig­ura­tion and glar­ing at a se­ries of di­agrams show­ing an owl turn­ing in­to a pair of opera glass­es. 'Yes, I'm start­ing to think he has. But, un­for­tu­nate­ly, he made Har­ry and me promise.'

'Well, you're just go­ing to have to break your promise, that's all,' said Ron firm­ly. 'I mean, come on… we've got ex­ams and we're about that far -' he held up his hand to show thumb and fore­fin­ger al­most touch­ing '- from be­ing chucked out as it is. And any­way… re­mem­ber Nor­bert? Re­mem­ber Ar­agog? Have we ev­er come off bet­ter for mix­ing with any of Ha­grid's mon­ster mates?'

'I know, it's just that - we promised,' said Hermione in a small voice.

Ron smoothed his hair flat again, look­ing pre­oc­cu­pied.

'Well,' he sighed, 'Ha­grid hasn't been sacked yet, has he? He's hung on this long, maybe he'll hang on till the end of term and we won't have to go near Grawp at all.'

*

The cas­tle grounds were gleam­ing in the sun­light as though fresh­ly paint­ed; the cloud­less sky smiled at it­self in the smooth­ly sparkling lake; the satin green lawns rip­pled oc­ca­sion­al­ly in a gen­tle breeze. June had ar­rived, but to the fifth-​years this meant on­ly one thing: their OWLs were up­on them at last.

Their teach­ers were no longer set­ting them home­work; lessons were de­vot­ed to re­vis­ing those top­ics the teach­ers thought most like­ly to come up in the ex­ams. The pur­pose­ful, fever­ish at­mo­sphere drove near­ly ev­ery­thing but the OWLs from Har­ry's mind, though he did won­der oc­ca­sion­al­ly dur­ing Po­tions lessons whether Lupin had ev­er told Snape that he must con­tin­ue giv­ing Har­ry Oc­clu­men­cy tu­ition. If he had, then Snape had ig­nored Lupin as thor­ough­ly as he was now ig­nor­ing Har­ry. This suit­ed Har­ry very well; he was quite busy and tense enough with­out ex­tra class­es with Snape, and to his re­lief Hermione was much too pre­oc­cu­pied these days to bad­ger him about Oc­clu­men­cy; she was spend­ing a lot of time mut­ter­ing to her­self, and had not laid out any elf clothes for days.

She was not the on­ly per­son act­ing odd­ly as the OWLs drew steadi­ly near­er. Ernie Macmil­lan had de­vel­oped an ir­ri­tat­ing habit of in­ter­ro­gat­ing peo­ple about their re­vi­sion prac­tices.

'How many hours d'you think you're do­ing a day?' he de­mand­ed of Har­ry and Ron as they queued out­side Her­bol­ogy a man­ic gleam in his eyes.

'I dun­no,' said Ron. 'A few.'

'More or less than eight?'

'Less, I's'pose,' said Ron, look­ing slight­ly alarmed.

'I'm do­ing eight,' said Ernie, puff­ing out his chest. 'Eight or nine. I'm get­ting an hour in be­fore break­fast ev­ery day. Eight's my av­er­age. I can do ten on a good week­end day. I did nine and a half on Mon­day. Not so good on Tues­day - on­ly sev­en and a quar­ter. Then on Wednes­day -'

Har­ry was deeply thank­ful that Pro­fes­sor Sprout ush­ered them in­to green­house three at that point, forc­ing Ernie to aban­don his recital.

Mean­while, Dra­co Mal­foy had found a dif­fer­ent way to in­duce pan­ic.

'Of course, it's not what you know,' he was heard to tell Crabbe and Goyle loud­ly out­side Po­tions a few days be­fore the ex­ams were to start, 'it's who you know. Now, Fa­ther's been friend­ly with the head of the Wiz­ard­ing Ex­am­ina­tions Au­thor­ity for years - old Grisel­da March­banks - we've had her round for din­ner and ev­ery­thing…'

'Do you think that's true?' Hermione whis­pered in alarm to Har­ry and Ron.

'Noth­ing we can do about it if it is,' said Ron gloomi­ly.

'I don't think it's true,' said Neville qui­et­ly from be­hind them. 'Be­cause Grisel­da March­banks is a friend of my gran's, and she's nev­er men­tioned the Mal­foys.'

'What's she like, Neville?' asked Hermione at once. 'Is she strict?'

'Bit like Gran, re­al­ly,' said Neville in a sub­dued voice.

'Know­ing her won't hurt your chances, though, will it?' Ron told him en­cour­ag­ing­ly.

'Oh, I don't think it will make any dif­fer­ence,' said Neville, still more mis­er­ably. 'Grans al­ways telling Pro­fes­sor March­banks I'm not as good as my dad… well… you saw what she's like at St Mun­go's

Neville looked fixed­ly at the floor. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione glanced at each oth­er, but didn't know what to say. It was the first time Neville had ac­knowl­edged that they had met at the wiz­ard­ing hos­pi­tal.

Mean­while, a flour­ish­ing black-​mar­ket trade in aids to con­cen­tra­tion, men­tal agili­ty and wake­ful­ness had sprung up among the fifth- and sev­enth-​years. Har­ry and Ron were much tempt­ed by the bot­tle of Baruf­fio's Brain Elixir of­fered to them by Raven­claw sixth-​year Ed­die Carmichael, who swore it was sole­ly re­spon­si­ble for the nine 'Out­stand­ing' OWLs he had gained the pre­vi­ous sum­mer and was of­fer­ing a whole pint for a mere twelve Galleons. Ron as­sured Har­ry he would re­im­burse him for his half the mo­ment he left Hog­warts and got a job, but be­fore they could close the deal, Hermione had con­fis­cat­ed the bot­tle from Carmichael and poured the con­tents down a toi­let.

'Hermione, we want­ed to buy that!' shout­ed Ron.

'Don't be stupid,' she snarled. 'You might as well take Harold Din­gle's pow­dered drag­on claw and have done with it.'

'Din­gle's got pow­dered drag­on claw?' said Ron ea­ger­ly.

'Not any more,' said Hermione. 'I con­fis­cat­ed that, too. None of these things ac­tu­al­ly work, you know.'

'Drag­on claw does work!' said Ron. 'It's sup­posed to be in­cred­ible, re­al­ly gives your brain a boost, you come over all cun­ning for a few hours - Hermione, let me have a pinch, go on, it can't hurt -'

This stuff can,' said Hermione grim­ly. 'I've had a look at it, and it's ac­tu­al­ly dried Doxy drop­pings.'

This in­for­ma­tion took the edge off Har­ry and Rons de­sire for brain stim­ulants.

They re­ceived their ex­am­ina­tion timeta­bles and de­tails of the pro­ce­dure for OWLs dur­ing their next Trans­fig­ura­tion les­son.

'As you can see,' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall told the class as they copied down the dates and times of their ex­ams from the black­board, 'your OWLs are spread over two suc­ces­sive weeks. You will sit the the­ory pa­pers in the morn­ings and the prac­tice in the af­ter­noons. Your prac­ti­cal As­tron­omy ex­am­ina­tion will, of course, take place at night.

'Now, I must warn you that the most strin­gent an­ti-​cheat­ing charms have been ap­plied to your ex­am­ina­tion pa­pers. Au­to-​An­swer Quills are banned from the ex­am­ina­tion hall, as are Re­mem­bralls, De­tach­able Crib­bing Cuffs and Self-​Cor­rect­ing Ink. Ev­ery year, I am afraid to say, seems to har­bour at least one stu­dent who thinks that he or she can get around the Wiz­ard­ing Ex­am­ina­tions Au­thor­ity's rules. I can on­ly hope that it is no­body in Gryffind­or. Our new - Head­mistress —' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall pro­nounced the word with the same look on her face that Aunt Petu­nia had when­ev­er she was con­tem­plat­ing a par­tic­ular­ly stub­born bit of dirt '- has asked the Heads of House to tell their stu­dents that cheat­ing will be pun­ished most severe­ly - be­cause, of course, your ex­am­ina­tion re­sults will re­flect up­on the Head­mistress's new regime at the school -'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall gave a tiny sigh; Har­ry saw the nos­trils of her sharp nose flare.

'- how­ev­er, that is no rea­son not to do your very best. You have your own fu­tures to think about.'

'Please, Pro­fes­sor,' said Hermione, her hand in the air, 'when will we find out our re­sults?'

'An owl will be sent to you some time in Ju­ly' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

'Ex­cel­lent,' said Dean Thomas in an au­di­ble whis­per, 'so we don't have to wor­ry about it till the hol­idays.'

Har­ry imag­ined sit­ting in his bed­room in Priv­et Drive in six weeks' time, wait­ing for his OWL re­sults. Well, he thought dul­ly, at least he would be sure of one bit of post that sum­mer.

Their first ex­am­ina­tion, The­ory of Charms, was sched­uled for Mon­day morn­ing. Har­ry agreed to test Hermione af­ter lunch on Sun­day, but re­gret­ted it al­most at once; she was very ag­itat­ed and kept snatch­ing the book back from him to check that she had got the an­swer com­plete­ly right, fi­nal­ly hit­ting him hard on the nose with the sharp edge of Achieve­ments in Charm­ing.

'Why don't you just do it your­self?' he said firm­ly, hand­ing the book back to her, his eyes wa­ter­ing.

Mean­while, Ron was read­ing two years' worth of Charms notes with his fin­gers in his ears, his lips mov­ing sound­less­ly; Sea­mus Finni­gan was ly­ing flat on his back on the floor, recit­ing the def­ini­tion of a Sub­stan­tive Charm while Dean checked it against The Stan­dard Book of Spells, Grade 5; and Par­vati and Laven­der, who were prac­tis­ing ba­sic Lo­co­mo­tion Charms, were mak­ing their pen­cil-​cas­es race each oth­er around the edge of the ta­ble.

Din­ner was a sub­dued af­fair that night. Har­ry and Ron did not talk much, but ate with gus­to, hav­ing stud­ied hard all day. Hermione, on the oth­er hand, kept putting down her knife and fork and div­ing un­der the ta­ble for her bag, from which she would seize a book to check some fact or fig­ure. Ron was just telling her that she ought to eat a de­cent meal or she would not sleep that night, when her fork slid from her limp fin­gers and land­ed with a loud tin­kle on her plate.

'Oh, my good­ness,' she said faint­ly, star­ing in­to the En­trance Hall. 'Is that them? Is that the ex­am­in­ers?'

Har­ry and Ron whipped around on their bench. Through the doors to the Great Hall they could see Um­bridge stand­ing with a small group of an­cient-​look­ing witch­es and wiz­ards. Um­bridge, Har­ry was pleased to see, looked rather ner­vous.

'Shall we go and have a clos­er look?' said Ron.

Har­ry and Hermione nod­ded and they has­tened to­wards the dou­ble doors in­to the En­trance Hall, slow­ing down as they stepped over the thresh­old to walk se­date­ly past the ex­am­in­ers. Har­ry thought Pro­fes­sor March­banks must be the tiny, stooped witch with a face so lined it looked as though it had been draped in cob­webs; Um­bridge was speak­ing to her def­er­en­tial­ly. Pro­fes­sor March­banks seemed to be a lit­tle deaf; she was an­swer­ing Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge very loud­ly con­sid­er­ing they were on­ly a foot apart.

'Jour­ney was fine, jour­ney was fine, we've made it plen­ty of times be­fore!' she said im­pa­tient­ly. 'Now, I haven't heard from Dum­ble­dore late­ly!' she added, peer­ing around the Hall as though hope­ful he might sud­den­ly emerge from a broom cup­board. 'No idea where he is, I sup­pose?'

'None at all,' said Um­bridge, shoot­ing a malev­olent look at Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, who were now dawdling around the foot of the stairs as Ron pre­tend­ed to do up his shoelace. 'But I dare­say the Min­istry of Mag­ic will track him down soon enough.'

'I doubt it,' shout­ed tiny Pro­fes­sor March­banks, 'not if Dum­ble­dore doesn't want to be found! I should know… ex­am­ined him per­son­al­ly in Trans­fig­ura­tion and Charms when he did NEWTs… did things with a wand I'd nev­er seen be­fore.'

'Yes… well…' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge as Har­ry, Ron and Hermione dragged their feet up the mar­ble stair­case as slow­ly as they dared, 'let me show you to the staff room. I dare­say you'd like a cup of tea af­ter your jour­ney.'

It was an un­com­fort­able sort of an evening. Ev­ery­one was try­ing to do some last-​minute re­vis­ing but no­body seemed to be get­ting very far. Har­ry went to bed ear­ly but then lay awake for what felt like hours. He re­mem­bered his ca­reers con­sul­ta­tion and McG­ona­gall's fu­ri­ous dec­la­ra­tion that she would help him be­come an Au­ror if it was the last thing she did. He wished he had ex­pressed a more achiev­able am­bi­tion now that ex­am time was here. He knew he was not the on­ly one ly­ing awake, but none of the oth­ers in the dor­mi­to­ry spoke and fi­nal­ly, one by one, they fell asleep.

None of the fifth-​years talked very much at break­fast next day, ei­ther: Par­vati was prac­tis­ing in­can­ta­tions un­der her breath while the salt cel­lar in front of her twitched; Hermione was reread­ing Achieve­ments in Charm­ing so fast that her eyes ap­peared blurred; and Neville kept drop­ping his knife and fork and knock­ing over the mar­malade.

Once break­fast was over, the fifth- and sev­enth-​years milled around in the En­trance Hall while the oth­er stu­dents went off to lessons; then, at half past nine, they were called for­wards class by class to re-​en­ter the Great Hall, which had been re­ar­ranged ex­act­ly as Har­ry had seen it in the Pen­sieve when his fa­ther, Sir­ius and Snape had been tak­ing their OWLs; the four house ta­bles had been re­moved and re­placed in­stead with many ta­bles for one, all fac­ing the staff-​ta­ble end of the Hall where Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stood fac­ing them. When they were all seat­ed and qui­et, she said, 'You may be­gin,' and turned over an enor­mous hour-​glass on the desk be­side her, on which there were al­so spare quills, ink bot­tles and rolls of parch­ment.

Har­ry turned over his pa­per, his heart thump­ing hard - three rows to his right and four seats ahead Hermione was al­ready scrib­bling - and low­ered his eyes to the first ques­tion: a) Give the in­can­ta­tion and b) de­scribe the wand move­ment re­quired to make ob­jects fly.

Har­ry had a fleet­ing mem­ory of a club soar­ing high in­to the air and land­ing loud­ly on the thick skull of a troll… smil­ing slight­ly, he bent over the pa­per and be­gan to write.

*

'Well, it wasn't too bad, was it?' asked Hermione anx­ious­ly in the En­trance Hall two hours lat­er, still clutch­ing the ex­am pa­per. 'I'm not sure I did my­self jus­tice on Cheer­ing Charms, I just ran out of time. Did you put in the counter-​charm for hic­coughs? I wasn't, sure whether I ought to, it felt like too much - and on ques­tion twen­ty-​three -'

'Hermione,' said Ron stern­ly, 'we've been through this be­fore… we're not go­ing through ev­ery ex­am af­ter­wards, it's bad enough do­ing them once.'

The fifth-​years ate lunch with the rest of the school (the four house ta­bles had reap­peared for the lunch hour), then they trooped off in­to the small cham­ber be­side the Great Hall, where they were to wait un­til called for their prac­ti­cal ex­am­ina­tion. As small groups of stu­dents were called for­wards in al­pha­bet­ical or­der, those left be­hind mut­tered in­can­ta­tions and prac­tised wand move­ments, oc­ca­sion­al­ly pok­ing each oth­er in the back or eye by mis­take.

Hermione's name was called. Trem­bling, she left the cham­ber with An­tho­ny Gold­stein, Gre­go­ry Goyle and Daphne Green­grass. Stu­dents who had al­ready been test­ed did not re­turn af­ter­wards, so Har­ry and Ron had no idea how Hermione had done.

'She'll be fine, re­mem­ber she got a hun­dred and twelve per cent on one of our Charms tests?' said Ron.

Ten min­utes lat­er, Pro­fes­sor Flitwick called, 'Parkin­son, Pan­sy - Patil, Pad­ma - Patil, Par­vati - Pot­ter, Har­ry.'

'Good luck,' said Ron qui­et­ly. Har­ry walked in­to the Great Hall, clutch­ing his wand so tight­ly his hand shook.

'Pro­fes­sor Tofty is free, Pot­ter,' squeaked Pro­fes­sor Flitwick, who was stand­ing just in­side the door. He point­ed Har­ry to­wards what looked like the very old­est and baldest ex­am­in­er who was sit­ting be­hind a small ta­ble in a far cor­ner, a short dis­tance from Pro­fes­sor March­banks, who was halfway through test­ing Dra­co Mal­foy.

'Pot­ter, is it?' said Pro­fes­sor Tofty, con­sult­ing his notes and peer­ing over his pince-​nez at Har­ry as he ap­proached. The fa­mous Pot­ter?'

Out of the cor­ner of his eye, Har­ry dis­tinct­ly saw Mal­foy throw a scathing look over at him; the wine-​glass Mal­foy had been lev­itat­ing fell to the floor and smashed. Har­ry could not sup­press a grin; Pro­fes­sor Tofty smiled back at him en­cour­ag­ing­ly.

That's it,' he said in his qua­very old voice, 'no need to be ner­vous. Now, if I could ask you to take this egg cup and make it do some cartwheels for me.'

On the whole, Har­ry thought it went rather well. His Lev­ita­tion Charm was cer­tain­ly much bet­ter than Mal­foy's had been, though he wished he had not mixed up the in­can­ta­tions for Colour Change and Growth Charms, so that the rat he was sup­posed to be turn­ing or­ange swelled shock­ing­ly and was the size of a bad­ger be­fore Har­ry could rec­ti­fy his mis­take. He was glad Hermione had not been in the Hall at the time and ne­glect­ed to men­tion it to her af­ter­wards. He could tell Ron, though; Ron had caused a din­ner plate to mu­tate in­to a large mush­room and had no idea how it had hap­pened.

There was no time to re­lax that night; they went straight to the com­mon room af­ter din­ner and sub­merged them­selves in re­vi­sion for Trans­fig­ura­tion next day; Har­ry went to bed with his head buzzing with com­plex spell mod­els and the­ories.

He for­got the def­ini­tion of a Switch­ing Spell dur­ing his writ­ten pa­per next morn­ing but thought his prac­ti­cal could have been a lot worse. At least he man­aged to Van­ish the whole of his igua­na, where­as poor Han­nah Ab­bott lost her head com­plete­ly at the next ta­ble and some­how man­aged to mul­ti­ply her fer­ret in­to a flock of flamin­gos, caus­ing the ex­am­ina­tion to be halt­ed for ten min­utes while the birds were cap­tured and car­ried out of the Hall.

They had their Her­bol­ogy ex­am on Wednes­day (oth­er than a small bite from a Fanged Gera­ni­um, Har­ry ielt he had done rea­son­ably well); and then, on Thurs­day, De­fence Against the Dark. Arts. Here, for the first time, Har­ry felt sure he had passed. He had no prob­lem with any of the writ­ten ques­tions and took par­tic­ular plea­sure, dur­ing the prac­ti­cal ex­am­ina­tion, in per­form­ing all the counter-​jinx­es and de­fen­sive spells right in front of Um­bridge, who was watch­ing cool­ly from near the doors in­to the En­trance Hall.

'Oh, bra­vo!' cried Pro­fes­sor Tofty, who was ex­am­in­ing Har­ry again, when Har­ry demon­strat­ed a per­fect Bog­gart ban­ish­ing spell. 'Very good in­deed! Well, I think that's all, Pot­ter… un­less…"

He leaned for­wards a lit­tle.

'I heard, from my dear friend Tiberius Og­den, that you can pro­duce a Pa­tronus? For a bonus point… ?'

Har­ry raised his wand, looked di­rect­ly at Um­bridge and imag­ined her be­ing sacked.

'Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!'

His sil­ver stag erupt­ed from the end of his wand and can­tered the length of the Hall. All of the ex­am­in­ers looked around to watch its progress and when it dis­solved in­to sil­ver mist Pro­fes­sor Tofty clapped his veined and knot­ted hands en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

'Ex­cel­lent!' he said. 'Very well, Pot­ter, you may go!'

As Har­ry passed Um­bridge be­side the door, their eyes met. There was a nasty smile play­ing around her wide, slack mouth, but he did not care. Un­less he was very much mis­tak­en (and he was not plan­ning on telling any­body, in case he was), he had just achieved an 'Out­stand­ing' OWL.

On Fri­day, Har­ry and Ron had a day off while Hermione sat her An­cient Runes ex­am, and as they had the whole week­end in front of them they per­mit­ted them­selves a break from re­vi­sion. They stretched and yawned be­side the open win­dow, through which warm sum­mer air was waft­ing as they played wiz­ard chess. Har­ry could see Hag­nd in the dis­tance, teach­ing a class on the edge of the For­est. He was try­ing to guess what crea­tures they were ex­am­in­ing - he thought it must be uni­corns, be­cause the boys seemed to be stand­ing back a lit­tle - when the por­trait hole opened and Hermione clam­bered in, look­ing thor­ough­ly bad-​tem­pered.

'How were the Runes?' said Ron, yawn­ing and stretch­ing.

'I mis-​trans­lat­ed ehwaz,' said Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly. 'It means part­ner­ship, not de­fence; I mixed it up with ei­hwaz.'

'Ah well,' said Ron lazi­ly, 'that's on­ly one mis­take, isn't it, you'll still get -'

'Oh, shut up!' said Hermione an­gri­ly. 'It could be the one mis­take that makes the dif­fer­ence be­tween a pass and a fail. And what's more, some­one's put an­oth­er Nif­fler in Um­bridge's of­fice. I don't know how they got it through that new door, but I just walked past there and Um­bridge is shriek­ing her head off - by the sound of it, it tried to take a chunk out of her leg -'

'Good,' said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

'It is not good!' said Hermione hot­ly. 'She thinks it's Ha­grid do­ing it, re­mem­ber? And we do not want Ha­grid chucked out!'

'He's teach­ing at the mo­ment; she can't blame him,' said Har­ry, ges­tur­ing out of the win­dow.

'Oh, you're so naive some­times, Har­ry. You re­al­ly think Um­bridge will wait for proof?' said Hermione, who seemed de­ter­mined to be in a tow­er­ing tem­per, and she swept off to­wards the girls' dor­mi­to­ries, bang­ing the door be­hind her.

'Such a love­ly, sweet-​tem­pered girl,' said Ron, very qui­et­ly, prod­ding his queen for­ward to beat up one of Har­ry's knights.

Hermione's bad mood per­sist­ed for most of the week­end, though Har­ry and Ron found it quite easy to ig­nore as they spent most of Sat­ur­day and Sun­day re­vis­ing for Po­tions on Mon­day, the ex­am which Har­ry had been look­ing for­ward to least - and which he was sure would be the down­fall of his am­bi­tions to be­come an Au­ror. Sure enough, he found the writ­ten pa­per dif­fi­cult, though he thought he might have got full marks on the ques­tion about Polyjuice Po­tion; he could de­scribe its ef­fects ac­cu­rate­ly, hav­ing tak­en it il­le­gal­ly in his sec­ond year.

The af­ter­noon prac­ti­cal was not as dread­ful as he had ex­pect­ed it to be. With Snape ab­sent from the pro­ceed­ings, he found that he was much more re­laxed than he usu­al­ly was while mak­ing po­tions. Neville, who was sit­ting very near Har­ry, al­so looked hap­pi­er than Har­ry had ev­er seen him dur­ing a Po­tions class. When Pro­fes­sor March­banks said, 'Step away from your caul­drons, please, the ex­am­ina­tion is over,' Har­ry corked his sam­ple flask feel­ing that he might not have achieved a good grade but he had, with luck, avoid­ed a fail.

'On­ly four ex­ams left,' said Par­vati Patil weari­ly as they head­ed back to Gryffind­or com­mon room.

'On­ly!' said Hermione snap­pish­ly. 'I've got Arith­man­cy and it's prob­ably the tough­est sub­ject there is!'

No­body was fool­ish enough to snap back, so she was un­able to vent her spleen on any of them and was re­duced to telling off some first-​years for gig­gling too loud­ly in the com­mon room.

Har­ry was de­ter­mined to per­form well in Tues­days Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures ex­am so as not to let Hag­nd down. The prac­ti­cal ex­am­ina­tion took place in the af­ter­noon on the lawn on the edge of the For­bid­den For­est, where stu­dents were re­quired to cor­rect­ly iden­ti­fy the Knarl hid­den among a dozen hedge­hogs (the trick was to of­fer them all milk in turn: Knarls, high­ly sus­pi­cious crea­tures whose quills had many mag­ical prop­er­ties, gen­er­al­ly went berserk at what they saw as an at­tempt to poi­son them); then demon­strate cor­rect han­dling of a Bowtruck­le; feed and clean out a Fire Crab with­out sus­tain­ing se­ri­ous burns; and choose, from a wide se­lec­tion of food, the di­et they would give a sick uni­corn.

Har­ry could see Ha­grid watch­ing anx­ious­ly out of his cab­in win­dow. When Har­ry's ex­am­in­er, a plump lit­tle witch this time, smiled at him and told him he could leave, Har­ry gave Ha­grid a fleet­ing thumbs-​up be­fore head­ing back to the cas­tle.

The As­tron­omy the­ory pa­per on Wednes­day morn­ing went well enough. Har­ry was not con­vinced he had got the names of all Jupiter's moons right, but was at least con­fi­dent that none of them was in­hab­it­ed by mice. They had to wait un­til evening for their prac­ti­cal As­tron­omy; the af­ter­noon was de­vot­ed in­stead to Div­ina­tion.

Even by Har­ry's low stan­dards in Div­ina­tion, the ex­am went very bad­ly. He might as well have tried to see mov­ing pic­tures on the desk­top as in the stub­born­ly blank crys­tal ball; he lost his head com­plete­ly dur­ing tea-​leaf read­ing, say­ing it looked to him as though Pro­fes­sor March­banks would short­ly be meet­ing a round, dark, sog­gy stranger, and round­ed off the whole fi­as­co by mix­ing up the life and head lines on her palm and in­form­ing her that she ought to have died the pre­vi­ous Tues­day.

'Well, we were al­ways go­ing to fail that one,' said Ron gloomi­ly as they as­cend­ed the mar­ble stair­case. He had just made Har­ry feel rather bet­ter by telling him how he had told the ex­am­in­er in de­tail about the ug­ly man with a wart on his nose in his crys­tal ball, on­ly to look up and re­alise he had been de­scrib­ing his ex­am­in­er's re­flec­tion.

'We shouldn't have tak­en the stupid sub­ject in the first place,' said Har­ry.

'Still, at least we can give it up now.'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry. 'No more pre­tend­ing we care what hap­pens when Jupiter and Uranus get too friend­ly.'

'And from now on, I don't care if my tea-​leaves spell die, Ron, die - I'm just chuck­ing them in the bin where they be­long.'

Har­ry laughed just as Hermione came run­ning up be­hind them. He stopped laugh­ing at once, in case it an­noyed her.

'Well, I think I've done all right in Arith­man­cy' she said, and Har­ry and Ron both sighed with re­lief. 'Just time for a quick look over our star-​charts be­fore din­ner, then…"

When they reached the top of the As­tron­omy Tow­er at eleven o'clock, they found a per­fect night for stargaz­ing, cloud­less and still. The grounds were bathed in sil­very moon­light and there was a slight chill in the air. Each of them set up his or her tele­scope and, when Pro­fes­sor March­banks gave the word, pro­ceed­ed to fill in the blank star-​chart they had been giv­en.

Pro­fes­sors March­banks and Tofty strolled among them, watch­ing as they en­tered the pre­cise po­si­tions of the stars and plan­ets they were ob­serv­ing. All was qui­et ex­cept for the rus­tle of parch­ment, the oc­ca­sion­al creak of a tele­scope as it was ad­just­ed on its stand, and the scrib­bling of many quills. Half an hour passed, then an hour; the lit­tle squares of re­flect­ed gold light flick­er­ing on the ground be­low start­ed to van­ish as lights in the cas­tle win­dows were ex­tin­guished.

As Har­ry com­plet­ed the con­stel­la­tion Ori­on on his chart, how­ev­er, the front doors of the cas­tle opened di­rect­ly be­low the para­pet where he was stand­ing, so that light spilled down the stone steps a lit­tle way across the lawn. Har­ry glanced down as he made a slight ad­just­ment to the po­si­tion of his tele­scope and saw five or six elon­gat­ed shad­ows mov­ing over the bright­ly lit grass be­fore the doors swung shut and the lawn be­came a sea of dark­ness once more.

Har­ry put his eye back to his tele­scope and re­fo­cused it, now ex­am­in­ing Venus. He looked down at his chart to en­ter the plan­et there, but some­thing dis­tract­ed him; paus­ing with his quill sus­pend­ed over the parch­ment, he squint­ed down in­to the shad­owy grounds and saw half a dozen fig­ures walk­ing over the lawn. If they had not been mov­ing, and the moon­light had not been gild­ing the tops of their heads, they would have been in­dis­tin­guish­able from the dark ground on which they walked. Even at this dis­tance, Har­ry had a fun­ny feel­ing he recog­nised the walk of the squat­test of them, who seemed to be lead­ing the group.

He could not think why Um­bridge would be tak­ing a stroll out­side af­ter mid­night, much less ac­com­pa­nied by five oth­ers. Then some­body coughed be­hind him, and he re­mem­bered that he was halfway through an ex­am. He had quite for­got­ten Venus's po­si­tion. Jam­ming his eye to his tele­scope, he found it again and was once more about to en­ter it on his chart when, alert for any odd sound, he heard a dis­tant knock which echoed through the de­sert­ed grounds, fol­lowed im­me­di­ate­ly by the muf­fled bark­ing of a large dog.

He looked up, his heart ham­mer­ing. There were lights on in Ha­grid's win­dows and the peo­ple he had ob­served cross­ing the lawn were now sil­hou­et­ted against them. The door opened and he dis­tinct­ly saw six sharply de­fined fig­ures walk over the thresh­old. The door closed again and there was si­lence.

Har­ry felt very un­easy. He glanced around to see whether Ron or Hermione had no­ticed what he had, but Pro­fes­sor March­banks came walk­ing be­hind him at that mo­ment and, not want­ing to look as though he was sneak­ing looks at any­one else's work, Har­ry hasti­ly bent over his star-​chart and pre­tend­ed to be adding notes to it while re­al­ly peer­ing over the top of the para­pet to­wards Ha­grid's cab­in. Fig­ures were now mov­ing across the cab­in win­dows, tem­porar­ily block­ing the light.

He could feel Pro­fes­sor March­banks's eyes on the back of his neck and pressed his eye again to his tele­scope, star­ing up at the moon though he had marked its po­si­tion an hour ago, but as Pro­fes­sor March­banks moved on he heard a roar from the dis­tant cab­in that echoed through the dark­ness right to the top of the As­tron­omy Tow­er. Sev­er­al of the peo­ple around Har­ry ducked out from be­hind their tele­scopes and peered in­stead in the di­rec­tion of Ha­grid's cab­in.

Pro­fes­sor Tofty gave an­oth­er dry lit­tle cough.

Try and con­cen­trate, now, boys and girls,' he said soft­ly.

Most peo­ple re­turned to their tele­scopes. Har­ry looked to his left. Hermione was gaz­ing trans­fixed at Ha­grid's cab­in.

'Ahem - twen­ty min­utes to go,' said Pro­fes­sor Tofty.

Hermione jumped and re­turned at once to her star-​chart; Har­ry looked down at his own and no­ticed that he had mis-​la­belled Venus as Mars. He bent to cor­rect it.

There was a loud BANG from the grounds. Sev­er­al peo­ple cried 'Ouch!' when they poked them­selves in the face with the ends of their tele­scopes as they has­tened to see what was go­ing on be­low.

Ha­grid's door had burst open and by the light flood­ing out of the cab­in they saw him quite clear­ly a mas­sive fig­ure roar­ing and bran­dish­ing his fists, sur­round­ed by six peo­ple, all of whom, judg­ing by the tiny threads of red light they were cast­ing in his di­rec­tion, seemed to be at­tempt­ing to Stun him.

'No!' cried Hermione.

'My dear!' said Pro­fes­sor Tofty in a scan­dalised voice. This is an ex­am­ina­tion!'

But no­body was pay­ing the slight­est at­ten­tion to their star-​charts any more. Jets of red light were still fly­ing about be­side Ha­grid's cab­in, yet some­how they seemed to be bounc­ing off him; he was still up­right and still, as far as Har­ry could see, fight­ing. Cries and yells echoed across the grounds; a man yelled, 'Be rea­son­able, Ha­grid!'

Ha­grid roared, 'Rea­son­able be damned, yeh won' take me like this, Dawlish!'

Har­ry could see the tiny out­line of Fang, at­tempt­ing to de­fend Ha­grid, leap­ing re­peat­ed­ly at the wiz­ards sur­round­ing him un­til a

Stun­ning Spell caught him and he fell to the ground. Ha­grid gave a howl of fury, lift­ed the cul­prit bod­ily from the ground and threw him; the man flew what looked like ten feet and did not get up again. Hermione gasped, both hands over her mouth; Har­ry looked round at Ron and saw that he, too, was look­ing scared. None of them had ev­er seen Ha­grid in a re­al tem­per be­fore.

'Look!' squealed Par­vati, who was lean­ing over the para­pet and point­ing to the foot of the cas­tle where the front doors had opened again; more light was spilling out on to the dark lawn and a sin­gle long black shad­ow was now rip­pling across the lawn.

'Now, re­al­ly!' said Pro­fes­sor Tofty anx­ious­ly. 'On­ly six­teen min­utes left, you know!'

But no­body paid him the slight­est at­ten­tion: they were watch­ing the per­son now sprint­ing to­wards the bat­tle be­side Ha­grid's cab­in.

'How dare you!' the fig­ure shout­ed as she ran. 'How dare you!'

'It's McG­ona­gall!' whis­pered Hermione.

'Leave him alone! Alone, I say!' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's voice through the dark­ness. 'On what grounds are you at­tack­ing him? He has done noth­ing, noth­ing to war­rant such -'

Hermione, Par­vati and Laven­der all screamed. The fig­ures around the cab­in had shot no few­er than four Stun­ners at Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. Halfway be­tween cab­in and cas­tle the red beams col­lid­ed with her; for a mo­ment she looked lu­mi­nous and glowed an eerie red, then she lift­ed right off her feet, land­ed hard on her back, and moved no more.

'Gal­lop­ing gar­goyles!' shout­ed Pro­fes­sor Tofty, who al­so seemed to have for­got­ten the ex­am com­plete­ly. 'Not so much as a warn­ing! Out­ra­geous be­haviour!'

'COW­ARDS!' bel­lowed Ha­grid; his voice car­ried clear­ly to the top of the tow­er, and sev­er­al lights flick­ered back on in­side the cas­tle. 'RUD­DY COW­ARDS! HAVE SOME O' THAT - AN' THAT -'

'Oh my —' gasped Hermione.

Ha­grid took two mas­sive swipes at his clos­est at­tack­ers; judg­ing by their im­me­di­ate col­lapse, they had been knocked cold. Har­ry saw Ha­grid dou­ble over, and thought he had fi­nal­ly been over­come by a spell. But, on the con­trary, next mo­ment Ha­grid was stand­ing again with what ap­peared to be a sack on his back -

then Har­ry re­alised that Fang's limp body was draped around his shoul­ders.

'Get him, get him!' screamed Um­bridge, but her re­main­ing helper seemed high­ly re­luc­tant to go with­in reach of Ha­grid's fists; in­deed, he was back­ing away so fast he tripped over one of his un­con­scious col­leagues and fell over. Ha­grid had turned and be­gun to run with Fang still hung around his neck. Um­bridge sent one last Stun­ning Spell af­ter him but it missed; and Ha­grid, run­ning full-​pelt to­wards the dis­tant gates, dis­ap­peared in­to the dark­ness.

There was a long min­utes quiv­er­ing si­lence as ev­ery­body gazed open-​mouthed in­to the grounds. Then Pro­fes­sor Tofty's voice said fee­bly, 'Um… five min­utes to go, ev­ery­body.'

Though he had on­ly filled in two-​thirds of his chart, Har­ry was des­per­ate for the ex­am to end. When it came at last he, Ron and Hermione forced their tele­scopes hap­haz­ard­ly back in­to their hold­ers and dashed back down the spi­ral stair­case. None of the stu­dents were go­ing to bed; they were all talk­ing loud­ly and ex­cit­ed­ly at the foot of the stairs about what they had wit­nessed.

That evil wom­an!' gasped Hermione, who seemed to be hav­ing dif­fi­cul­ty talk­ing due to rage. Try­ing to sneak up on Ha­grid in the dead of night!'

'She clear­ly want­ed to avoid an­oth­er scene like Trelawney's,' said Ernie Macmil­lan sage­ly, squeez­ing over to join them.

'Ha­grid did well, didn't he?' said Ron, who looked more alarmed than im­pressed. 'How come all the spells bounced off him?'

'It'll be his gi­ant blood,' said Hermione shak­ily. 'Its very hard to Stun a gi­ant, they're like trolls, re­al­ly tough… but poor Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall… four Stun­ners straight in the chest and she's not ex­act­ly young, is she?'

'Dread­ful, dread­ful,' said Ernie, shak­ing his head pompous­ly. 'Well, I'm off to bed. Night, all.'

Peo­ple around them were drift­ing away, still talk­ing ex­cit­ed­ly about what they had just seen.

'At least they didn't get to take Ha­grid off to Azk­aban,' said Ron. 'I spect he's gone to join Dum­ble­dore, hasn't he?'

'I sup­pose so,' said Hermione, who looked tear­ful. 'Oh, this is aw­ful, I re­al­ly thought Dum­ble­dore would be back be­fore long, but now we've lost Ha­grid too.'

They traipsed back to the Gryffind­or com­mon room to find it full. The com­mo­tion out in the grounds had wo­ken sev­er­al peo­ple, who had has­tened to rouse their friends. Sea­mus and Dean, who had ar­rived ahead of Har­ry, Ron and Hermione, were now telling ev­ery­one what they had seen and heard from the top of the As­tron­omy Tow­er.

'But why sack Ha­grid now?' asked An­geli­na John­son, shak­ing her head. 'It's not like Trelawney; he's been teach­ing much bet­ter than usu­al this year!'

'Um­bridge hates part-​hu­mans,' said Hermione bit­ter­ly, flop­ping down in­to an arm­chair. 'She was al­ways go­ing to try and get Ha­grid out.'

'And she thought Ha­grid was putting Nif­flers in her of­fice,' piped up Katie Bell.

'Oh, blimey,' said Lee Jor­dan, cov­er­ing his mouth. 'It's me who's been putting the Nif­flers in her of­fice. Fred and George left me a cou­ple; I've been lev­itat­ing them in through her win­dow.'

'She'd have sacked him any­way' said Dean. 'He was too close to Dum­ble­dore.'

That's true,' said Har­ry, sink­ing in­to an arm­chair be­side Hermione's.

'I just hope Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's all right,' said Laven­der tear­ful­ly.

They car­ried her back up to the cas­tle, we watched through the dor­mi­to­ry win­dow,' said Col­in Creevey 'She didn't look very well.'

'Madam Pom­frey will sort her out,' said Ali­cia Spin­net firm­ly. 'She's nev­er failed yet.'

It was near­ly four in the morn­ing be­fore the com­mon room cleared. Har­ry felt wide awake; the im­age of Ha­grid sprint­ing away in­to the dark was haunt­ing him; he was so an­gry with Um­bridge he could not think of a pun­ish­ment bad enough for her, though Ron's sug­ges­tion of hav­ing her fed to a box of starv­ing Blast-​End­ed Skrewts had its mer­its. He fell asleep con­tem­plat­ing hideous re­venges and arose from bed three hours lat­er feel­ing dis­tinct­ly un­rest­ed.

Their fi­nal ex­am, His­to­ry of Mag­ic, was not to take place un­til that af­ter­noon. Har­ry would very much have liked to go back to bed af­ter break­fast, but he had been count­ing on the morn­ing for a spot of last-​minute re­vi­sion, so in­stead he sat with his head in his hands by the com­mon-​room win­dow, try­ing hard not to doze off as he read through some of the three-​and-​a-​half-​feet-​high stack of notes that Hermione had lent him.

The fifth-​years en­tered the Great Hall at two o'clock and took their places in front of their face-​down ex­am­ina­tion pa­pers. Har­ry felt ex­haust­ed. He just want­ed this to be over, so that he could go and sleep; then to­mor­row, he and Ron were go­ing to go down to the Quid­ditch pitch - he was go­ing to have a fly on Rons broom - and savour their free­dom from re­vi­sion.

Turn over your pa­pers,' said Pro­fes­sor March­banks from the front of the Hall, flick­ing over the gi­ant hour-​glass. 'You may be­gin.'

Har­ry stared fixed­ly at the first ques­tion. It was sev­er­al sec­onds be­fore it oc­curred to him that he had not tak­en in a word of it; there was a wasp buzzing dis­tract­ing­ly against one of the high win­dows. Slow­ly, tor­tu­ous­ly, he at last be­gan to write an an­swer.

He was find­ing it very dif­fi­cult to re­mem­ber names and kept con­fus­ing dates. He sim­ply skipped ques­tion four (In your opin­ion, did wand leg­is­la­tion con­tribute to, or lead to bet­ter con­trol of, gob­lin ri­ots of the eigh­teenth cen­tu­ry?), think­ing that he would go back to it if he had time at the end. He had a stab at ques­tion five (How was the Statute of Se­cre­cy breached in 1749 and what mea­sures were in­tro­duced to pre­vent a re­cur­rence?) but had a nag­ging sus­pi­cion that he had missed sev­er­al im­por­tant points; he had a feel­ing vam­pires had come in­to the sto­ry some­where.

He looked ahead for a ques­tion he could def­inite­ly an­swer and his eyes alight­ed up­on num­ber ten: De­scribe the cir­cum­stances that led to the for­ma­tion of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards and ex­plain why the war­locks of Liecht­en­stein re­fused to join.

I know this, Har­ry thought, though his brain felt tor­pid and slack. He could vi­su­alise a head­ing, in Hermione's hand­writ­ing: The for­ma­tion of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards … he had read those notes on­ly this morn­ing.

He be­gan to write, look­ing up now and again to check the large hour-​glass on the desk be­side Pro­fes­sor March­banks. He was sit­ting right be­hind Par­vati Patil, whose long dark hair fell be­low the back of her chair. Once or twice he found him­self star­ing at the tiny gold­en lights that glis­tened in it when she moved her head slight­ly, and had to give his own head a lit­tle shake to clear it.

… the first Supreme Mug­wump of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards was Pierre Bonac­cord, but his ap­point­ment was con­test­ed by the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty of Liecht­en­stein, be­cause -

All around Har­ry quills were scratch­ing on parch­ment like scur­ry­ing, bur­row­ing rats. The sun was very hot on the back of his head. What was it that Bonac­cord had done to of­fend the wiz­ards of Liecht­en­stein? Har­ry had a feel­ing it had some­thing to do with trolls… he gazed blankly at the back of Par­vati's head again. If he could on­ly per­form Legili­men­cy and open a win­dow in the back of her head and see what it was about trolls that had caused the breach be­tween Pierre Bonac­cord and Liecht­en­stein…

Har­ry closed his eyes and buried his face in his hands, so that the glow­ing red of his eye­lids grew dark and cool. Bonac­cord had want­ed to stop troll-​hunt­ing and give the trolls rights… but Liecht­en­stein was hav­ing prob­lems with a tribe of par­tic­ular­ly vi­cious moun­tain trolls… that was it.

He opened his eyes; they stung and wa­tered at the sight of the blaz­ing white parch­ment. Slow­ly, he wrote two lines about the trolls, then read through what he had done so far. It did not seem very in­for­ma­tive or de­tailed, yet he was sure Hermione's notes on the Con­fed­er­ation had gone on for pages and pages.

He closed his eyes again, try­ing to see them, try­ing to re­mem­ber… the Con­fed­er­ation had met for the first time in France, yes, he had writ­ten that al­ready…

Gob­lins had tried to at­tend and been oust­ed… he had writ­ten that, too…

And no­body from Liecht­en­stein had want­ed to come…

Think, he told him­self, his face in his hands, while all around him quills scratched out nev­er-​end­ing an­swers and the sand trick­led through the hour-​glass at the front…

He was walk­ing along the cool, dark cor­ri­dor to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies again, walk­ing with a firm and pur­pose­ful tread, break­ing oc­ca­sion­al­ly in­to a run, de­ter­mined to reach his des­ti­na­tion at last… the black door swung open for him as usu­al, and here he was in the cir­cu­lar room with its many doors…

Straight across the stone floor and through the sec­ond door… patch­es of danc­ing light on the walls and floor and that odd me­chan­ical click­ing, but no time to ex­plore, he must hur­ry…

He jogged the last few feet to the third door, which swung open just like the oth­ers…

Once again he was in the cathe­dral-​sized room full of shelves and glass spheres… his heart was beat­ing very fast now… he was go­ing to get there this time… when he reached num­ber nine­ty-​sev­en he turned left and hur­ried along the aisle be­tween two rows…

But there was a shape on the floor at the very end, a black shape mov­ing on the floor like a wound­ed an­imal… Har­ry's stom­ach con­tract­ed with fear… with ex­cite­ment…

A voice is­sued from his own mouth, a high, cold voice emp­ty of any hu­man kind­ness…

Take it for me… lift it down, now… I can­not touch it… but you can

The black shape on the floor shift­ed a lit­tle. Har­ry saw a long-​fin­gered white hand clutch­ing a wand rise at the end of his own arm… heard the high, cold voice say 'Cru­cio!'

The man on the floor let out a scream of pain, at­tempt­ed to stand but fell back, writhing. Har­ry was laugh­ing. He raised his wand, the curse lift­ed and the fig­ure groaned and be­came mo­tion­less.

'Lord Volde­mort is wait­ing

Very slow­ly, his arms trem­bling, the man on the ground raised his shoul­ders a few inch­es and lift­ed his head. His face was blood­stained and gaunt, twist­ed in pain yet rigid with de­fi­ance…

'You'll have to kill me,' whis­pered Sir­ius.

'Un­doubt­ed­ly I shall in the end,' said the cold voice. 'But you will fetch it for me first, Black… you think you have felt pain thus far? Think again… we have hours ahead of us and no­body to hear you scream…'

But some­body screamed as Volde­mort low­ered his wand again; some­body yelled and fell side­ways off a hot desk on to the cold stone floor; Har­ry awoke as he hit the ground, still yelling, his scar on fire, as the Great Hall erupt­ed all around him.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 32 - Out of the Fire


'I'm not go­ing… I don't need the hos­pi­tal wing… I don't want

He was gib­ber­ing as he tried to pull away from Pro­fes­sor Tofty, who was look­ing at Har­ry with much con­cern af­ter help­ing him out in­to the En­trance Hall with the stu­dents all around them star­ing.

'I'm - I'm fine, sir,' Har­ry stam­mered, wip­ing the sweat from his face. 'Re­al­ly… I just fell asleep… had a night­mare…"

'Pres­sure of ex­am­ina­tions!' said the old wiz­ard sym­pa­thet­ical­ly, pat­ting Har­ry shak­ily on the shoul­der. 'It hap­pens, young man, it hap­pens! Now, a cool­ing drink of wa­ter, and per­haps you will be ready to re­turn to the Great Hall? The ex­am­ina­tion is near­ly over, but you may be able to round off your last an­swer nice­ly?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry wild­ly. 'I mean… no… I've done - done as much as I can, I think…'

'Very well, very well,' said the old wiz­ard gen­tly. 'I shall go and col­lect your ex­am­ina­tion pa­per and I sug­gest that you go and have a nice lie down.'

Til do that,' said Har­ry, nod­ding vig­or­ous­ly. Thanks very much.'

The sec­ond that the old man's heels dis­ap­peared over the thresh­old in­to the Great Hall, Har­ry ran up the mar­ble stair­case, hur­tled along the cor­ri­dors so fast the por­traits he passed mut­tered re­proach­es, up more flights of stairs, and fi­nal­ly burst like a hur­ri­cane through the dou­ble doors of the hos­pi­tal wing, caus­ing Madam Pom­frey - who had been spoon­ing some bright blue liq­uid in­to Mon­tague's open mouth - to shriek in alarm.

Tot­ter, what do you think you're do­ing?'

'I need to see Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall,' gasped Har­ry, the breath tear­ing his lungs. 'Now… it's ur­gent!'

'She's not here, Pot­ter,' said Madam Pom­frey sad­ly. 'She was trans­ferred to St Mun­go's this morn­ing. Four Stun­ning Spells straight to the chest at her age? It's a won­der they didn't kill her.'

'She's… gone?' said Har­ry, shocked.

The bell rang just out­side the dor­mi­to­ry and he heard the usu­al dis­tant rum­bling of stu­dents start­ing to flood out in­to the cor­ri­dors above and be­low him. He re­mained quite still, look­ing at Madam Pom­frey. Ter­ror was ris­ing in­side him.

There was no­body left to tell. Dum­ble­dore had gone, Ha­grid had gone, but he had al­ways ex­pect­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall to be there, iras­ci­ble and in­flex­ible, per­haps, but al­ways de­pend­ably, solid­ly present…

'I don't won­der you're shocked, Pot­ter,' said Madam Pom­frey, with a kind of fierce ap­proval in her face. 'As if one of them could have Stunned Min­er­va McG­ona­gall face-​on by day­light! Cow­ardice, . that's what it was… de­spi­ca­ble cow­ardice… if I wasn't wor­ried what would hap­pen to you stu­dents with­out me, I'd re­sign in protest.'

'Yes,' said Har­ry blankly.

He wheeled around and strode blind­ly from the hos­pi­tal wing in­to the teem­ing cor­ri­dor where he stood, buf­fet­ed by the crowd, pan­ic ex­pand­ing in­side him like poi­son gas so that his head swam and he could not think what to do…

Ron and Hermione, said a voice in his head.

He was run­ning again, push­ing stu­dents out of the way, obliv­ious to their an­gry protests. He sprint­ed back down two floors and was at the top of the mar­ble stair­case when he saw them hur­ry­ing to­wards him.

'Har­ry!' said Hermione at once, look­ing very fright­ened. 'What hap­pened? Are you all right? Are you ill?'

'Where have you been?' de­mand­ed Ron.

'Come with me,' Har­ry said quick­ly. 'Come on, I've got to tell you some­thing.'

He led them along the first-​floor cor­ri­dor, peer­ing through door­ways, and at last found an emp­ty class­room in­to which he dived, clos­ing the door be­hind Ron and Hermione the mo­ment they were in­side, and leaned against it, fac­ing them.

'Volde­mort's got Sir­ius.'

'What?'

'How d'you -?'

'Saw it. Just now. When I fell asleep in the ex­am.'

'But - but where? How?' said Hermione, whose face was white.

'I dun­no how,' said Har­ry. 'But I know ex­act­ly where. There's a room in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies full of shelves cov­ered in these lit­tle glass balls and they're at the end of row nine­ty-​sev­en… he's try­ing to use Sir­ius to get what­ev­er it is he wants from in there… he's tor­tur­ing him… says he'll end by killing him!'

Har­ry found his voice was shak­ing, as were his knees. He moved over to a desk and sat down on it, try­ing to mas­ter him­self.

'How're we go­ing to get there?' he asked them.

There was a mo­ment's si­lence. Then Ron said, 'G-​get there?'

'Get to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, so we can res­cue Sir­ius!' Har­ry said loud­ly.

'But - Har­ry…' said Ron weak­ly.

'What? What?' said Har­ry.

He could not un­der­stand why they were both gap­ing at him as though he was ask­ing them some­thing un­rea­son­able.

'Har­ry,' said Hermione in a rather fright­ened voice, 'er… how… how did Volde­mort get in­to the Min­istry of Mag­ic with­out any­body re­al­is­ing he was there?'

'How do I know?' bel­lowed Har­ry. The ques­tion is how we're go­ing to get in there!'

'But… Har­ry, think about this,' said Hermione, tak­ing a step to­wards him, 'it's five o'clock in the af­ter­noon… the Min­istry of Mag­ic must be full of work­ers… how would Volde­mort and Sir­ius have got in with­out be­ing seen? Har­ry… they're prob­ably the two most want­ed wiz­ards in the world… you think they could get in­to a build­ing full of Au­rors un­de­tect­ed?'

'I dun­no, Volde­mort used an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak or some­thing!' Har­ry shout­ed. 'Any­way, the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies has al­ways been com­plete­ly emp­ty when­ev­er I've been -'

'You've nev­er been there, Har­ry,' said Hermione qui­et­ly. 'You've dreamed about the place, that's all.'

They're not nor­mal dreams!' Har­ry shout­ed in her face, stand­ing up and tak­ing a step clos­er to her in turn. He want­ed to shake her. 'How d'you ex­plain Ron's dad then, what was all that about, how come I knew what had hap­pened to him?'

'He's got a point,' said Ron qui­et­ly, look­ing at Hermione.

'But this is just — just so un­like­ly*.' said Hermione des­per­ate­ly. 'Har­ry, how on earth could Volde­mort have got hold of Sir­ius when he's been in Grim­mauld Place all the time?'

'Sir­ius might've cracked and just want­ed some fresh air,' said Ron, sound­ing wor­ried. 'He's been des­per­ate to get out of that house for ages -'

'But why,' Hermione per­sist­ed, 'why on earth would Volde­mort want to use Sir­ius to get the weapon, or what­ev­er the thing is?'

'I dun­no, there could be loads of rea­sons!' Har­ry yelled at her. 'Maybe Sir­ius is just some­one Volde­mort doesn't care about see­ing hurt -'

'You know what, I've just thought of some­thing,' said Ron in a hushed voice. 'Sir­ius's broth­er was a Death Eater, wasn't he? Maybe he told Sir­ius the se­cret of how to get the weapon!'

'Yeah - and that's why Dum­ble­dore's been so keen to keep Sir­ius locked up all the time!' said Har­ry.

'Look, I'm sor­ry,' cried Hermione, 'but nei­ther of you is mak­ing sense, and we've got no proof for any of this, no proof Volde­mort and Sir­ius are even there -'

'Hermione, Har­rys seen them!' said Ron, round­ing on her.

'OK,' she said, look­ing fright­ened yet de­ter­mined, 'I've just got to say this -'

'What?'

'You… this isn't a crit­icism, Har­ry! But you do… sort of… I mean - don't you think you've got a bit of a - a - sav­ing-​peo­ple thing!' she said.

He glared at her.

'And what's that sup­posed to mean, a “sav­ing-​peo­ple thing”?'

'Well… you…' she looked more ap­pre­hen­sive than ev­er. 'I mean… last year, for in­stance… in the lake… dur­ing the Tour­na­ment… you shouldn't have… I mean, you didn't need to save that lit­tle Dela­cour girl… you got a bit… car­ried away…'

A wave of hot, prick­ly anger swept through Har­rys body; how could she re­mind him of that blun­der now?

'1 mean, it was re­al­ly great of you and ev­ery­thing,' said Hermione quick­ly, look­ing pos­itive­ly pet­ri­fied at the look on Har­rys face, 'ev­ery­one thought it was a won­der­ful thing to do -'

That's fun­ny,' said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth, 'be­cause I def­inite­ly re­mem­ber Ron say­ing I'd wast­ed time act­ing the hero … is that what you think this is? You reck­on I want to act the hero again?'

'No, no, no!' said Hermione, look­ing aghast. That's not what I mean at all!'

'Well, spit out what you've got to say, be­cause we're wast­ing time here!' Har­ry shout­ed.

'I'm try­ing to say - Volde­mort knows you, Har­ry! He took Gin­ny down in­to the Cham­ber of Se­crets to lure you there, it's the kind of thing he does, he knows you're the - the sort of per­son who'd go to Sir­ius's aid! What if he's just try­ing to get you in­to the De­part­ment of Myst—?'

'Hermione, it doesn't mat­ter if he's done it to get me there or not - they've tak­en McG­ona­gall to St Mun­go's, there isn't any­one from the Or­der left at Hog­warts who we can tell, and if we don't go, Sir­ius is dead!'

'But Har­ry - what if your dream was - was just that, a dream?'

Har­ry let out a roar of frus­tra­tion. Hermione ac­tu­al­ly stepped back from him, look­ing alarmed.

'You don't get it!' Har­ry shout­ed at her, 'I'm not hav­ing night­mares, I'm not just dream­ing! What d'you think all the Oc­clu­men­cy was for, why d'you think Dum­ble­dore want­ed me pre­vent­ed from see­ing these things? Be­cause they're RE­AL, Hermione - Sir­ius is trapped, I've seen him. Volde­mort's got him, and no one else knows, and that means we're the on­ly ones who can save him, and if you don't want to do it, fine, but I'm go­ing, un­der­stand? And if I re­mem­ber right­ly, you didn't have a prob­lem with my sav­ing-​peo­ple thing when it was you I was sav­ing from the De­men­tors, or -' he round­ed on Ron '- when it was your sis­ter I was sav­ing from the Basilisk -'

'I nev­er said I had a prob­lem!' said Ron heat­ed­ly.

'But Har­ry, you've just said it,' said Hermione fierce­ly, 'Dum­ble­dore want­ed you to learn to shut these things out of your mind, if you'd done Oc­clu­men­cy prop­er­ly you'd nev­er have seen this -'

'IF YOU THINK I'M JUST GO­ING TO ACT LIKE I HAVEN'T SEEN -'

'Sir­ius told you there was noth­ing more im­por­tant than you learn­ing to close your mind!'

'WELL, I EX­PECT HE'D SAY SOME­THING DIF­FER­ENT IF HE KNEW WHAT I'D JUST -'

The class­room door opened. Har­ry, Ron and Hermione whipped around. Gin­ny walked in, look­ing cu­ri­ous, close­ly fol­lowed by Lu­na, who as usu­al looked as though she had drift­ed in ac­ci­den­tal­ly.

'Hi,' said Gin­ny un­cer­tain­ly. 'We recog­nised Har­ry's voice. What are you yelling about?'

'Nev­er you mind,' said Har­ry rough­ly.

Gin­ny raised her eye­brows.

There's no need to take that tone with me,' she said cool­ly, 'I was on­ly won­der­ing whether I could help.'

'Well, you can't,' said Har­ry short­ly.

'You're be­ing rather rude, you know,' said Lu­na serene­ly.

Har­ry swore and turned away. The very last thing he want­ed now was a con­ver­sa­tion with Lu­na Love­good.

'Wait,' said Hermione sud­den­ly. 'Wait… Har­ry, they can help.'

Har­ry and Ron looked at her.

'Lis­ten,' she said ur­gent­ly, 'Har­ry, we need to es­tab­lish whether Sir­ius re­al­ly has left Head­quar­ters.'

'I've told you, I saw -'

'Har­ry, I'm beg­ging you, please!' said Hermione des­per­ate­ly. 'Please let's just check that Sir­ius isn't at home be­fore we go charg­ing off to Lon­don. If we find out he's not there, then I swear I won't try to stop you. I'll come, I'll d - do what­ev­er it takes to try and save him.'

'Sir­ius is be­ing tor­tured NOW!' shout­ed Har­ry. 'We haven't got time to waste.'

'But if this is a trick of Volde­mort's, Har­ry, we've got to check, we've got to.'

'How?' Har­ry de­mand­ed. 'How're we go­ing to check?'

'We'll have to use Um­bridge's fire and see if we can con­tact him,' said Hermione, who looked pos­itive­ly ter­ri­fied at the thought. 'We'll draw Um­bridge away again, but we'll need look­outs, and that's where we can use Gin­ny and Lu­na.'

Though clear­ly strug­gling to un­der­stand what was go­ing on, Gin­ny said im­me­di­ate­ly, 'Yeah, we'll do it,' and Lu­na said, 'When you say “Sir­ius”, are you talk­ing about Stub­by Board­man?'

No­body an­swered her.

'OK,' Har­ry said ag­gres­sive­ly to Hermione, 'OK, if you can think of a way of do­ing this quick­ly, I'm with you, oth­er­wise I'm go­ing to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies right now.'

The De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?' said Lu­na, look­ing mild­ly sur­prised. 'But how are you go­ing to get there?'

Again, Har­ry ig­nored her.

'Right,' said Hermione, twist­ing her hands to­geth­er and pac­ing up and down be­tween the desks. 'Right… well… one of us has to go and find Um­bridge and - and send her off in the wrong di­rec­tion, keep her away from her of­fice. They could tell her - I don't know - that Peeves is up to some­thing aw­ful as usu­al

Til do it,' said Ron at once. Til tell her Peeves is smash­ing up the Trans­fig­ura­tion de­part­ment or some­thing, it's miles away from her of­fice. Come to think of it, I could prob­ably per­suade Peeves to do it if I met him on the way.'

It was a mark of the se­ri­ous­ness of the sit­ua­tion that Hermione made no ob­jec­tion to the smash­ing up of the Trans­fig­ura­tion de­part­ment.

'OK,' she said, her brow fur­rowed as she con­tin­ued to pace. 'Now, we need to keep stu­dents right away from her of­fice while we force en­try, or some Slytherins bound to go and tip her off.'

'Lu­na and I can stand at ei­ther end of the cor­ri­dor,' said Gin­ny prompt­ly, 'and warn peo­ple not to go down there be­cause some­one's let off a load of Gar­rot­ting Gas.' Hermione looked sur­prised at the readi­ness with which Gin­ny had come up with this lie; Gin­ny shrugged and said, 'Fred and George were plan­ning to do it be­fore they left.'

'OK,' said Hermione. 'Well then, Har­ry, you and I will be un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and we'll sneak in­to the of­fice and you can talk to Sir­ius -'

'He's not there, Hermione!'

'I mean, you can - can check whether Sir­ius is at home or not while I keep watch, I don't think you should be in there alone, Lee's al­ready proved the win­dows a weak spot, send­ing those Nif­flers through it.'

Even through his anger and im­pa­tience, Har­ry recog­nised Hermiones of­fer to ac­com­pa­ny him in­to Um­bridge's of­fice as a sign of sol­idar­ity and loy­al­ty.

'I… OK, thanks,' he mut­tered.

'Right, well, even if we do all of that, I don't think we're go­ing to be able to bank on more than five min­utes,' said Hermione, look­ing re­lieved that Har­ry seemed to have ac­cept­ed the plan, 'not with Filch and the wretched In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad float­ing around.'

'Five min­utes'll be enough,' said Har­ry. 'C'mon, let's go -'

'Now?' said Hermione, look­ing shocked.

'Of course now!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly. 'What did you think, we're go­ing to wait un­til af­ter din­ner or some­thing? Hermione, Sir­ius is be­ing tor­tured right now!'

'I - oh, all right,' she said des­per­ate­ly. 'You go and get the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and we'll meet you at the end of Um­bridge's cor­ri­dor, OK?'

Har­ry didn't an­swer, but flung him­self out of the room and be­gan to fight his way through the milling crowds out­side. Two floors up he met Sea­mus and Dean, who hailed him jovial­ly and told him they were plan­ning a dusk-​till-​dawn end-​of-​ex­ams cel­ebra­tion in the com­mon room. Har­ry bare­ly heard them. He scram­bled through the por­trait hole while they were still ar­gu­ing about how many black-​mar­ket But­ter­beers they would need and was climb­ing back out of it, the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and Sir­ius's knife se­cure in his bag, be­fore they no­ticed he had left them.

'Har­ry, d'you want to chip in a cou­ple of Galleons? Harold Din­gle reck­ons he could sell us some Firewhisky -'

But Har­ry was al­ready tear­ing away back along the cor­ri­dor, and a cou­ple of min­utes lat­er was jump­ing the last few stairs to join Ron, Hermione, Gin­ny and Lu­na, who were hud­dled to­geth­er at the end of Um­bridge's cor­ri­dor.

'Got it,' he pant­ed. 'Ready to go, then?' :•

'All right,' whis­pered Hermione as a gang of loud sixth-​years passed them. 'So Ron - you go and head Um­bridge off… Gin­ny, Lu­na, if you can start mov­ing peo­ple out of the cor­ri­dor… Har­ry and I will get the Cloak on and wait un­til the coast is clear…"

Ron strode away, his bright-​red hair vis­ible right to the end of the pas­sage; mean­while Gin­nys equal­ly vivid head bobbed be­tween the jostling stu­dents sur­round­ing them in the oth­er di­rec­tion, trailed by Lu­na's blonde one.

'Get over here,' mut­tered Hermione, tug­ging at Har­ry's wrist and pulling him back in­to a re­cess where the ug­ly stone head of a me­dieval wiz­ard stood mut­ter­ing to it­self on a col­umn. 'Are - are you sure you're OK, Har­ry? You're still very pale.'

'I'm fine,' he said short­ly, tug­ging the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak from out of his bag. In truth, his scar was aching, but not so bad­ly that he thought Volde­mort had yet dealt Sir­ius a fa­tal blow; it had hurt much worse than this when Volde­mort had been pun­ish­ing Av­ery…

'Here,' he said; he threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over both of them and they stood lis­ten­ing care­ful­ly over the Latin mum­blings of the bust in front of them.

'You can't come down here!' Gin­ny was call­ing to the crowd. 'No, sor­ry, you're go­ing to have to go round by the swiv­el­ling stair­case, some­one's let off Gar­rot­ting Gas just along here -'

They could hear peo­ple com­plain­ing; one surly voice said, 'I can't see no gas.'

That's be­cause it's colour­less,' said Gin­ny in a con­vinc­ing­ly ex­as­per­at­ed voice, 'but if you want to walk through it, car­ry on, then we'll have your body as proof for the next id­iot who doesn't be­lieve us.'

Slow­ly, the crowd thinned. The news about the Gar­rot­ting Gas seemed to have spread; peo­ple were not com­ing this way any more. When at last the sur­round­ing area was quite clear, Hermione said qui­et­ly, 'I think that's as good as we're go­ing to get, Har­ry — come on, let's do it.'

They moved for­wards, cov­ered by the Cloak. Lu­na was stand­ing with her back to them at the far end of the cor­ri­dor. As they passed Gin­ny, Hermione whis­pered, 'Good one… don't for­get the sig­nal.'

'What's the sig­nal?' mut­tered Har­ry, as they ap­proached Um­bridge's door.

'A loud cho­rus of “Weasley is our King” if they see Um­bridge com­ing,' replied Hermione, as Har­ry in­sert­ed the blade of Sir­ius's knife in the crack be­tween door and wall. The lock clicked open and they en­tered the of­fice.

The gar­ish kit­tens were bask­ing in the late-​af­ter­noon sun­shine that was warm­ing their plates, but oth­er­wise the of­fice was as still and un­oc­cu­pied as last time. Hermione breathed a sigh of re­lief.

'I thought she might have added ex­tra se­cu­ri­ty af­ter the sec­ond Nif­fler.'

They pulled off the Cloak; Hermione hur­ried over to the win­dow and stood out of sight, peer­ing down in­to the grounds with her wand out. Har­ry dashed over to the fire­place, seized the pot of Floo pow­der and threw a pinch in­to the grate, caus­ing emer­ald flames to burst in­to life there. He knelt down quick­ly, thrust his head in­to the danc­ing fire and cried, 'Num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place!'

His head be­gan to spin as though he had just got off a iair-​ground ride though his knees re­mained firm­ly plant­ed on the cold of­fice floor. He kept his eyes screwed up against the whirling ash and when the spin­ning stopped he opened them to find him­self look­ing out at the long, cold kitchen of Grim­mauld Place.

There was no­body there. He had ex­pect­ed this, yet was not pre­pared for the molten wave of dread and pan­ic that seemed to burst through his stom­ach at the sight of the de­sert­ed room.

'Sir­ius?' he shout­ed. 'Sir­ius, are you there?'

His voice echoed around the room, but there was no an­swer ex­cept a tiny scuff­ing sound to the right of the fire.

'Who's there?' he called, won­der­ing whether it was just a mouse.

Kreach­er the house-​elf crept in­to view. He looked high­ly de­light­ed about some­thing, though he seemed to have re­cent­ly sus­tained a nasty in­jury to both hands, which were heav­ily ban­daged.

'It's the Pot­ter boy's head in the fire,' Kreach­er in­formed the emp­ty kitchen, steal­ing furtive, odd­ly tri­umphant glances at Har­ry. 'What has he come for, Kreach­er won­ders?'

'Where's Sir­ius, Kreach­er?' Har­ry de­mand­ed.

The house-​elf gave a wheezy chuck­le.

'Mas­ter has gone out, Har­ry Pot­ter.'

'Where's he gone? Where's he gone, Kreach­er?'

Kreach­er mere­ly cack­led.

'I'm warn­ing you!' said Har­ry, ful­ly aware that his scope for in­flict­ing pun­ish­ment up­on Kreach­er was al­most non-​ex­is­tent in this po­si­tion. 'What about Lupin? Mad-​Eye? Any of them, are any of them there?'

'No­body here but Kreach­er!' said the elf glee­ful­ly, and turn­ing away from Har­ry he be­gan to walk slow­ly to­wards the door at the end of the kitchen. 'Kreach­er thinks he will have a lit­tle chat with his mis­tress now, yes, he hasn't had a chance in a long time, Kreach­er's mas­ter has been keep­ing him away from her -'

'Where has Sir­ius gone?' Har­ry yelled af­ter the elf. 'Kreach­er, has he gone to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?'

Kreach­er stopped in his tracks. Har­ry could just make out the back of his bald head through the for­est of chair legs be­fore him.

'Mas­ter does not tell poor Kreach­er where he is go­ing,' said the elf qui­et­ly.

'But you know!' shout­ed Har­ry. 'Don't you? You know where he is!'

There was a mo­ment's si­lence, then the elf let out his loud­est cack­le yet.

'Mas­ter will not come back from the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies!' he said glee­ful­ly. 'Kreach­er and his mis­tress are alone again!'

And he scur­ried for­wards and dis­ap­peared through the door to the hall.

'You -!'

But be­fore he could ut­ter a sin­gle curse or in­sult, Har­ry felt a great pain at the top of his head; he in­haled a lot of ash and, chok­ing, found him­self be­ing dragged back­wards through the flames, un­til with a hor­ri­ble abrupt­ness he was star­ing up in­to the wide, pal­lid face of Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge who had dragged him back­wards out of the fire by the hair and was now bend­ing his neck back as far as it would go, as though she were go­ing to slit his throat.

'You think,' she whis­pered, bend­ing Har­ry's neck back even fur­ther, so that he was look­ing up at the ceil­ing, 'that af­ter two Nif­flers

I was go­ing to let one more foul, scav­eng­ing lit­tle crea­ture en­ter my of­fice with­out my knowl­edge? I had Stealth Sen­sor­ing Spells placed all around my door­way af­ter the last one got in, you fool­ish boy. Take his wand,' she barked at some­one he could not see, and he felt a hand grope in­side the chest pock­et of his robes and re­move the wand. 'Hers, too.'

Har­ry heard a scuf­fle over by the door and knew that Hermione had al­so just had her wand wrest­ed from her.

'1 want to know why you are in my of­fice,' said Um­bridge, shak­ing the fist clutch­ing his hair so that he stag­gered.

'I was - try­ing to get my Fire­bolt!' Har­ry croaked.

'Liar.' She shook his head again. 'Your Fire­bolt is un­der strict guard in the dun­geons, as you very well know, Pot­ter. You had your head in my fire. With whom have you been com­mu­ni­cat­ing?'

'No one -' said Har­ry, try­ing to pull away from her. He felt sev­er­al hairs part com­pa­ny with his scalp.

'Liar!' shout­ed Um­bridge. She threw him from her and he slammed in­to the desk. Now he could see Hermione pin­ioned against the wall by Mil­li­cent Bul­strode. Mal­foy was lean­ing on the win­dowsill, smirk­ing as he threw Har­ry's wand in­to the air one-​hand­ed and caught it again.

There was a com­mo­tion out­side and sev­er­al large Slytherins en­tered, each grip­ping Ron, Gin­ny, Lu­na and - to Har­ry's be­wil­der­ment - Neville, who was trapped in a stran­gle­hold by Crabbe and looked in im­mi­nent dan­ger of suf­fo­ca­tion. All four of them had been gagged.

'Got 'em all,' said War­ring­ton, shov­ing Ron rough­ly for­wards in­to the room. That one,' he poked a thick fin­ger at Neville, 'tried to stop me tak­ing her,' he point­ed at Gin­ny, who was try­ing to kick the shins of the large Slytherin girl hold­ing her, 'so I brought him along too.'

'Good, good,' said Um­bridge, watch­ing Gin­ny's strug­gles. 'Well, it looks as though Hog­warts will short­ly be a Weasley-​free zone, doesn't it?'

Mal­foy laughed loud­ly and syco­phan­ti­cal­ly. Um­bridge gave her wide, com­pla­cent smile and set­tled her­self in­to a chintz-​cov­ered arm­chair, blink­ing up at her cap­tives like a toad in a flowerbed.

'So, Pot­ter,' she said. 'You sta­tioned look­outs around my of­fice and you sent this buf­foon,' she nod­ded at Ron — Mal­foy laughed even loud­er - 'to tell me the poltergeist was wreak­ing hav­oc in the Trans­fig­ura­tion de­part­ment when I knew per­fect­ly well that he was busy smear­ing ink on the eye­pieces of all the school tele­scopes -Mr Filch hav­ing just in­formed me so.

'Clear­ly, it was very im­por­tant for you to talk to some­body. Was it Al­bus Dum­ble­dore? Or the half-​breed, Ha­grid? I doubt it was Min­er­va McG­ona­gall, I hear she is still too ill to talk to any­one.'

Mal­foy and a few of the oth­er mem­bers of the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad laughed some more at that. Har­ry found he was so full of rage and ha­tred he was shak­ing.

'It's none of your busi­ness who I talk to,' he snarled.

Um­bridge's slack face seemed to tight­en.

'Very well,' she said in her most dan­ger­ous and false­ly sweet voice. 'Very well, Mr Pot­ter… I of­fered you the chance to tell me freely. You re­fused. I have no al­ter­na­tive but to force you. Dra­co

- fetch Pro­fes­sor Snape.'

Mal­foy stowed Har­ry's wand in­side his robes and left the room smirk­ing, but Har­ry hard­ly no­ticed. He had just re­alised some­thing; he could not be­lieve he had been so stupid as to for­get it. He had thought that all the mem­bers of the Or­der, all those who could help him save Sir­ius, were gone - but he had been wrong. There was still a mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix at Hog­warts

- Snape.

There was si­lence in the of­fice ex­cept for the fid­get­ings and scuf-​flings re­sult­ing from the Slytherins' ef­forts to keep Ron and the oth­ers un­der con­trol. Ron's lip was bleed­ing on to Um­bridge's car­pet as he strug­gled against War­ring­ton's half-​nel­son; Gin­ny was still try­ing to stamp on the feet of the sixth-​year girl who had both her up­per arms in a tight grip; Neville was turn­ing steadi­ly more pur­ple in the face while tug­ging at Crabbe's arms; and Hermione was at­tempt­ing, in vain, to throw Mil­li­cent Bul­strode off her. Lu­na, how­ev­er, stood limply by the side of her cap­tor, gaz­ing vague­ly out of the win­dow as though rather bored by the pro­ceed­ings.

Har­ry looked back at Um­bridge, who was watch­ing him close­ly. He kept his face de­lib­er­ate­ly smooth and blank as foot­steps were heard in the cor­ri­dor out­side and Dra­co Mal­foy en­tered the room, close­ly fol­lowed by Snape.

'You want­ed to see me, Head­mistress?' said Snape, look­ing around at all the pairs of strug­gling stu­dents with an ex­pres­sion of com­plete in­dif­fer­ence.

'Ah, Pro­fes­sor Snape,' said Um­bridge, smil­ing wide­ly and stand­ing up again. 'Yes, I would like an­oth­er bot­tle of Ver­itaserum, as quick as you can, please.'

'You took my last bot­tle to in­ter­ro­gate Pot­ter,' he said, sur­vey­ing her cool­ly through his greasy cur­tains of black hair. 'Sure­ly you did not use it all? I told you that three drops would be suf­fi­cient.'

Um­bridge flushed.

'You can make some more, can't you?' she said, her voice be­com­ing more sweet­ly girl­ish as it al­ways did when she was fu­ri­ous.

'Cer­tain­ly,' said Snape, his lip curl­ing. 'It takes a full moon-​cy­cle to ma­ture, so I should have it ready for you in around a month.'

'A month?' squawked Um­bridge, swelling toad­ish­ly. 'A month? But I need it this evening, Snape! I have just found Pot­ter us­ing my fire to com­mu­ni­cate with a per­son or per­sons un­known!'

'Re­al­ly?' said Snape, show­ing his first, faint sign of in­ter­est as he looked round at Har­ry. 'Well, it doesn't sur­prise me. Pot­ter has nev­er shown much in­cli­na­tion to fol­low school rules.'

His cold, dark eyes were bor­ing in­to Har­ry's, who met his gaze un­flinch­ing­ly, con­cen­trat­ing hard on what he had seen in his dream, will­ing Snape to read it in his mind, to un­der­stand…

'I wish to in­ter­ro­gate him!' re­peat­ed Um­bridge an­gri­ly, and Snape looked away from Har­ry back in­to her fu­ri­ous­ly quiv­er­ing face. 'I wish you to pro­vide me with a po­tion that will force him to tell me the truth!'

'I have al­ready told you,' said Snape smooth­ly, 'that I have no fur­ther stocks of Ver­itaserum. Un­less you wish to poi­son Pot­ter -and I as­sure you I would have the great­est sym­pa­thy with you if you did - I can­not help you. The on­ly trou­ble is that most ven­oms act too fast to give the vic­tim much time for truth-​telling.'

Snape looked back at Har­ry, who stared at him, fran­tic to com­mu­ni­cate with­out words.

Volde­mort's got Sir­ius in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, he thought des­per­ate­ly. Volde­mort's got Sir­ius -

'You are on pro­ba­tion!' shrieked Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, and Snape looked back at her, his eye­brows slight­ly raised. 'You are be­ing de­lib­er­ate­ly un­help­ful! I ex­pect­ed bet­ter, Lu­cius Mal­foy al­ways speaks most high­ly of you! Now get out of my of­fice!'

Snape gave her an iron­ic bow and turned to leave. Har­ry knew his last chance of let­ting the Or­der know what was go­ing on was walk­ing out of the door.

'He's got Pad­foot!' he shout­ed. 'He's got Pad­foot at the place where it's hid­den!'

Snape had stopped with his hand on Um­bridges door han­dle.

'Pad­foot?' cried Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, look­ing ea­ger­ly from Har­ry to Snape. 'What is Pad­foot? Where what is hid­den? What does he mean, Snape?'

Snape looked round at Har­ry. His face was in­scrutable. Har­ry could not tell whether he had un­der­stood or not, but he did not dare speak more plain­ly in front of Um­bridge.

'I have no idea,' said Snape cold­ly. 'Pot­ter, when I want non­sense shout­ed at me I shall give you a Bab­bling Bev­er­age. And Crabbe, loosen your hold a lit­tle. If Long­bot­tom suf­fo­cates it will mean a lot of te­dious pa­per­work and I am afraid I shall have to men­tion it on your ref­er­ence if ev­er you ap­ply for a job.'

He closed the door be­hind him with a snap, leav­ing Har­ry in a state of worse tur­moil than be­fore: Snape had been his very last hope. He looked at Um­bridge, who seemed to be feel­ing the same way; her chest was heav­ing with rage and frus­tra­tion.

'Very well,' she said, and she pulled out her wand. 'Very well… I am left with no al­ter­na­tive… this is more than a mat­ter of school dis­ci­pline… this is an is­sue of Min­istry se­cu­ri­ty… yes… yes…'

She seemed to be talk­ing her­self in­to some­thing. She was shift­ing her weight ner­vous­ly from foot to foot, star­ing at Har­ry, beat­ing her wand against her emp­ty palm and breath­ing heav­ily. As he watched her, Har­ry felt hor­ri­bly pow­er­less with­out his own wand.

'You are forc­ing me, Pot­ter… I do not want to,' said Um­bridge, still mov­ing rest­less­ly on the spot, 'but some­times cir­cum­stances jus­ti­fy the use… I am sure the Min­is­ter will un­der­stand that I had no choice

Mal­foy was watch­ing her with a hun­gry ex­pres­sion on his face.

The Cru­cia­tus Curse ought to loosen your tongue,' said Um­bridge qui­et­ly.

'No!' shrieked Hermione. 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge - it's il­le­gal.'

But Um­bridge took no no­tice. There was a nasty, ea­ger, ex­cit­ed look on her face that Har­ry had nev­er seen be­fore. She raised her wand.

The Min­is­ter wouldn't want you to break the law, Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge!' cried Hermione.

'What Cor­nelius doesn't know won't hurt him,' said Um­bridge, who was now pant­ing slight­ly as she point­ed her wand at dif­fer­ent parts of Har­ry's body in turn, ap­par­ent­ly try­ing to de­cide where it would hurt most. 'He nev­er knew I or­dered De­men­tors to go af­ter Pot­ter last sum­mer, but he was de­light­ed to be giv­en the chance to ex­pel him, all the same.'

'It was you? gasped Har­ry. 'You sent the De­men­tors af­ter me?'

'Some­body had to act,' breathed Um­bridge, as her wand came to rest point­ing di­rect­ly at Har­rys fore­head. They were all bleat­ing about si­lenc­ing you some­how - dis­cred­it­ing you - but I was the one who ac­tu­al­ly did some­thing about it… on­ly you wrig­gled out of that one, didn't you, Pot­ter? Not to­day though, not now -' And tak­ing a deep breath, she cried, 'Cruc—'

'NO!' shout­ed Hermione in a cracked voice from be­hind Mil­li­cent Bul­strode. 'No - Har­ry - we'll have to tell her!'

'No way!' yelled Har­ry, star­ing at the lit­tle of Hermione he could see.

'We'll have to, Har­ry, she'll force it out of you any­way, what's… what's the point?'

And Hermione be­gan to cry weak­ly in­to the back of Mil­li­cent Bul­strode's robes. Mil­li­cent stopped try­ing to squash her against the wall im­me­di­ate­ly and dodged out of her way look­ing dis­gust­ed.

'Well, well, well!' said Um­bridge, look­ing tri­umphant. 'Lit­tle Miss Ques­tion-​all is go­ing to give us some an­swers! Come on then, girl, come on!'

'Er - my - nee - no!' shout­ed Ron through his gag.

Gin­ny was star­ing at Hermione as though she had nev­er seen her be­fore. Neville, still chok­ing for breath, was gaz­ing at her, too. But Har­ry had just no­ticed some­thing. Though Hermione was sob­bing des­per­ate­ly in­to her hands, there was no trace of a tear.

'I'm - I'm sor­ry ev­ery­one,' said Hermione. 'But - I can't stand it -'

That's right, that's right, girl!' said Um­bridge, seiz­ing Hermione by the shoul­ders, thrust­ing her in­to the aban­doned chintz chair and lean­ing over her. 'Now then… with whom was Pot­ter com­mu­ni­cat­ing just now?'

'Well,' gulped Hermione in­to her hands, 'well, he was try­ing to speak to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore.'

Ron froze, his eyes wide; Gin­ny stopped try­ing to stamp on her Slytherin cap­tor's toes; and even Lu­na looked mild­ly sur­prised. For­tu­nate­ly, the at­ten­tion of Um­bridge and her min­ions was fo­cused too ex­clu­sive­ly up­on Hermione to no­tice these sus­pi­cious signs.

'Dum­ble­dore?' said Um­bridge ea­ger­ly. 'You know where Dum­ble­dore is, then?'

'Well… no!' sobbed Hermione. 'We've tried the Leaky Caul­dron in Di­agon Al­ley and the Three Broom­sticks and even the Hog's Head -'

'Id­iot girl - Dum­ble­dore won't be sit­ting in a pub when the whole Min­istry's look­ing lor him!' shout­ed Um­bridge, dis­ap­point­ment etched in ev­ery sag­ging line of her face.

'But - but we need­ed to tell him some­thing im­por­tant!' wailed Hermione, hold­ing her hands more tight­ly over her face, not, Har­ry knew, out of an­guish, but to dis­guise the con­tin­ued ab­sence of tears.

'Yes?' said Um­bridge with a sud­den resur­gence of ex­cite­ment. 'What was it you want­ed to tell him?'

We… we want­ed to tell him it's r - ready!' choked Hermione.

What's ready?' de­mand­ed Um­bridge, and now she grabbed Hermione's shoul­ders again and shook her slight­ly. What's ready, girl?'

The… the weapon,' said Hermione.

'Weapon? Weapon?' said Um­bridge, and her eyes seemed to pop with ex­cite­ment. 'You have been de­vel­op­ing some method of re­sis­tance? A weapon you could use against the Min­istry? On Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore's or­ders, of course?'

'Y — y - yes,' gasped Hermione, 'but he had to leave be­fore it was fin­ished and n - n - now we've fin­ished it for him, and we c - c - can't find him't -'t - to tell him!'

'What kind of weapon is it?' said Um­bridge harsh­ly, her stub­by hands still tight on Hermione's shoul­ders.

'We don't r - r - re­al­ly un­der­stand it,' said Hermione, sniff­ing loud­ly. 'We j - j - just did what P - P - Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore told us't -'t - to do.'

Um­bridge straight­ened up, look­ing ex­ul­tant.

'Lead me to the weapon,' she said.

'I'm not show­ing… them,' said Hermione shril­ly, look­ing around at the Slytherins through her fin­gers.

'It is not for you to set con­di­tions,' said Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge harsh­ly.

'Fine,' said Hermione, now sob­bing in­to her hands again. 'Fine… let them see it, I hope they use it on you! In fact, I wish you'd in­vite loads and loads of peo­ple to come and see! Th - that would serve you right - oh, I'd love it if the wh - whole school knew where it was, and how to u - use it, and then if you an­noy any of them they'll be able to's - sort you out!'

These words had a pow­er­ful im­pact on Um­bridge: she glanced swift­ly and sus­pi­cious­ly around at her In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad, her bulging eyes rest­ing for a mo­ment on Mal­foy, who was too slow to dis­guise the look of ea­ger­ness and greed that had ap­peared on his face.

Um­bridge con­tem­plat­ed Hermione for an­oth­er long mo­ment, then spoke in what she clear­ly thought was a moth­er­ly voice.

'All right, dear, let's make it just you and me… and we'll take Pot­ter, too, shall we? Get up, now.'

'Pro­fes­sor,' said Mal­foy ea­ger­ly, 'Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge, I think some of the Squad should come with you to look af­ter -'

'I am a ful­ly qual­ified Min­istry of­fi­cial, Mal­foy, do you re­al­ly think I can­not man­age two wand­less teenagers alone?' asked Um­bridge sharply. 'In any case, it does not sound as though this weapon is some­thing that schoolchil­dren should see. You will re­main here un­til I re­turn and make sure none of these -' she ges­tured around at Ron, Gin­ny, Neville and Lu­na '- es­cape.'

'All right,' said Mal­foy, look­ing sulky and dis­ap­point­ed.

'And you two can go ahead of me and show me the way' said Um­bridge, point­ing at Har­ry and Hermione with her wand. 'Lead on.





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 33 - Fight and Flight


Har­ry had no idea what Hermione was plan­ning, or even whether she had a plan. He walked half a pace be­hind her as they head­ed down the cor­ri­dor out­side Um­bridge's of­fice, know­ing it would look very sus­pi­cious if he ap­peared not to know where they were go­ing. He did not dare at­tempt to talk to her; Um­bridge was walk­ing so close­ly be­hind them that he could hear her ragged breath­ing.

Hermione led the way down the stairs in­to the En­trance Hall. The din of loud voic­es and the clat­ter of cut­lery on plates echoed from out of the dou­ble doors to the Great Hall - it seemed in­cred­ible to Har­ry that twen­ty feet away were peo­ple who were en­joy­ing din­ner, cel­ebrat­ing the end of ex­ams, not a care in the world…

Hermione walked straight out of the oak front doors and down the stone steps in­to the balmy evening air. The sun was falling to­wards the tops of the trees in the For­bid­den For­est now, and as Hermione marched pur­pose­ful­ly across the grass - Um­bridge jog­ging to keep up - their long dark shad­ows rip­pled over the grass be­hind them like cloaks.

'It's hid­den in Ha­grid's hut, is it?' said Um­bridge ea­ger­ly in Har­ry's ear.

'Of course not,' said Hermione scathing­ly. 'Ha­grid might have set it off ac­ci­den­tal­ly'

'Yes,' said Um­bridge, whose ex­cite­ment seemed to be mount­ing. 'Yes, he would have done, of course, the great half-​breed oaf.'

She laughed. Har­ry felt a strong urge to swing round and seize her by the throat, but re­sist­ed. His scar was throb­bing in the soft evening air but it had not yet burned white-​hot, as he knew it would if Volde­mort had moved in for the kill.

Then… where is it?' asked Um­bridge, with a hint of un­cer­tain­ty in her voice as Hermione con­tin­ued to stride to­wards the For­est.

'In there, of course,' said Hermione, point­ing in­to the dark trees. 'It had to be some­where that stu­dents weren't go­ing to find it ac­ci­den­tal­ly, didn't it?'

'Of course,' said Um­bridge, though she sound­ed a lit­tle ap­pre­hen­sive now. 'Of course… very well, then… you two stay ahead of me.'

'Can we have your wand, then, if we're go­ing first?' Har­ry asked her.

'No, I don't think so, Mr Pot­ter,' said Um­bridge sweet­ly, pok­ing him in the back with it. The Min­istry places a rather high­er val­ue on my life than yours, I'm afraid.'

As they reached the cool shade of the first trees, Har­ry tried to catch Hermiones eye; walk­ing in­to the For­est with­out wands seemed to him to be more fool­hardy than any­thing they had done so far this evening. She, how­ev­er, mere­ly gave Um­bridge a con­temp­tu­ous glance and plunged straight in­to the trees, mov­ing at such a pace that Um­bridge, with her short­er legs, had dif­fi­cul­ty in keep­ing up.

'Is it very far in?' Um­bridge asked, as her robe ripped on a bram­ble.

'Oh yes,' said Hermione, 'yes, it's well hid­den.'

Har­ry's mis­giv­ings in­creased. Hermione was not tak­ing the path they had fol­lowed to vis­it Grawp, but the one he fol­lowed three years ago to the lair of the mon­ster Ar­agog. Hermione had not been with him on that oc­ca­sion; he doubt­ed she had any idea what dan­ger lay at the end of it.

'Er - are you sure this is the right way?' he asked her point­ed­ly.

'Oh yes,' she said in a steely voice, crash­ing through the un­der­growth with what he thought was a whol­ly un­nec­es­sary amount of noise. Be­hind them, Um­bridge tripped over a fall­en sapling. Nei­ther of them paused to help her up again; Hermione mere­ly strode on, call­ing loud­ly over her shoul­der, 'It's a bit fur­ther in!'

'Hermione, keep your voice down,' Har­ry mut­tered, hur­ry­ing to catch up with her. 'Any­thing could be lis­ten­ing in here -'

'I want us heard,' she an­swered qui­et­ly, as Um­bridge jogged nois­ily af­ter them. 'You'll see…"

They walked on for what seemed a long time, un­til they were once again so deep in­to the For­est that the dense tree canopy blocked out all light. Har­ry had the feel­ing he had had be­fore in the For­est, one of be­ing watched by un­seen eyes.

'How much fur­ther?' de­mand­ed Um­bridge an­gri­ly from be­hind him.

'Not far now!' shout­ed Hermione, as they emerged in­to a dim, dank clear­ing. 'Just a lit­tle bit -'

An ar­row flew through the air and land­ed with a men­ac­ing thud in the tree just over her head. The air was sud­den­ly full of the sound of hooves; Har­ry could feel the For­est floor trem­bling; Um­bridge gave a lit­tle scream and pushed him in front of her like a shield -

He wrenched him­self free of her and turned. Around fifty cen­taurs were emerg­ing on ev­ery side, their bows raised and load­ed, point­ing at Har­ry Hermione and Um­bridge. They backed slow­ly in­to the cen­tre of the clear­ing, Um­bridge ut­ter­ing odd lit­tle whim­pers of ter­ror. Har­ry looked side­ways at Hermione. She was wear­ing a tri­umphant smile.

'Who are you?' said a voice.

Har­ry looked left. The chest­nut-​bod­ied cen­taur called Mago­ri­an was walk­ing to­wards them out of the cir­cle: his bow, like those of the oth­ers, was raised. On Har­ry's right, Um­bridge was still whim­per­ing, her wand trem­bling vi­olent­ly as she point­ed it at the ad­vanc­ing cen­taur.

'I asked you who are you, hu­man,' said Mago­ri­an rough­ly.

'I am Do­lores Um­bridge!' said Um­bridge in a high-​pitched, ter­ri­fied voice. 'Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic and Head­mistress and High In­quisi­tor of Hog­warts!'

'You are from the Min­istry of Mag­ic?' said Mago­ri­an, as many of the cen­taurs in the sur­round­ing cir­cle shift­ed rest­less­ly.

That's right!' said Um­bridge, in an even high­er voice, 'so be very care­ful! By the laws laid down by the De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures, any at­tack by half-​breeds such as your­selves on a hu­man -'

'What did you call us?' shout­ed a wild-​look­ing black cen­taur, whom Har­ry recog­nised as Bane. There was a great deal of an­gry mut­ter­ing and tight­en­ing of bow­strings around them.

'Don't call them that!' Hermione said fu­ri­ous­ly, but Umb­ndge did not ap­pear to have heard her. Still point­ing her shak­ing wand at Mago­ri­an, she con­tin­ued, 'Law Fif­teen “B” states clear­ly that “any at­tack by a mag­ical crea­ture who is deemed to have near-​hu­man in­tel­li­gence, and there­fore con­sid­ered re­spon­si­ble for its ac­tions —”'

'“Near-​hu­man in­tel­li­gence”?' re­peat­ed Mago­ri­an, as Bane and sev­er­al oth­ers roared with rage and pawed the ground. 'We con­sid­er that a great in­sult, hu­man! Our in­tel­li­gence, thank­ful­ly, far out­strips your own.'

'What are you do­ing in our For­est?' bel­lowed the hard-​faced grey cen­taur Har­ry and Hermione had seen on their last trip in­to the For­est. 'Why are you here?'

'Your For­est?' said Um­bridge, shak­ing now not on­ly with fright but al­so, it seemed, with in­dig­na­tion. 'I would re­mind you that you live here on­ly be­cause the Min­istry of Mag­ic per­mits you cer­tain ar­eas of land -'

An ar­row flew so close to her head that it caught at her mousy hair in pass­ing: she let out an ear-​split­ting scream and threw her hands over her head, while some of the cen­taurs bel­lowed their ap­proval and oth­ers laughed rau­cous­ly. The sound of their wild, neigh­ing laugh­ter echo­ing around the dim­ly lit clear­ing and the sight of their paw­ing hooves was ex­treme­ly un­nerv­ing.

'Whose For­est is it now, hu­man?' bel­lowed Bane.

'Filthy half-​breeds!' she screamed, her hands still tight over her head. 'Beasts! Un­con­trolled an­imals!'

'Be qui­et!' shout­ed Hermione, but it was too late: Um­bridge point­ed her wand at Mago­ri­an and screamed, 'In­car­cer­ous!'

Ropes flew out of midair like thick snakes, wrap­ping them­selves tight­ly around the cen­taur's tor­so and trap­ping his arms: he gave a cry of rage and reared on to his hind legs, at­tempt­ing to free him­self, while the oth­er cen­taurs charged.

Har­ry grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the ground; face down on the For­est floor, he knew a mo­ment of ter­ror as hooves thun­dered around him, but the cen­taurs leapt over and around them, bel­low­ing and scream­ing with rage.

'Nooooo!' he heard Um­bridge shriek. 'Noooooo… I am Se­nior

Un­der­sec­re­tary… you can­not - Un­hand me, you an­imals… nooooo!'

Har­ry saw a flash of red light and knew she had at­tempt­ed to Stun one of them; then she screamed very loud­ly. Lift­ing his head a few inch­es, Har­ry saw that Um­bridge had been seized from be­hind by Bane and lift­ed high in­to the air, wrig­gling and yelling with fright. Her wand fell from her hand to the ground, and Har­ry's heart leapt. If he could just reach it -

But as he stretched out a hand to­wards it, a cen­taur's hoof de­scend­ed up­on the wand and it broke clean­ly in half.

'Now!' roared a voice in Har­ry's ear and a thick hairy arm de­scend­ed from thin air and dragged him up­right. Hermione, too, had been pulled to her feet. Over the plung­ing, many-​coloured backs and heads of the cen­taurs, Har­ry saw Um­bridge be­ing borne away through the trees by Bane. Scream­ing non-​stop, her voice grew fainter and fainter un­til they could no longer hear it over the tram­pling of hooves sur­round­ing them.

'And these?' said the hard-​faced, grey cen­taur hold­ing Hermione.

They are young,' said a slow, dole­ful voice from be­hind Har­ry. 'We do not at­tack foals.'

They brought her here, Ro­nan,' replied the cen­taur who had such a firm grip on Har­ry. 'And they are not so young… he is near­ing man­hood, this one.'

He shook Har­ry by the neck of his robes.

'Please,' said Hermione breath­less­ly, 'please, don't at­tack us, we don't think like her, we aren't Min­istry of Mag­ic em­ploy­ees! We on­ly came in here be­cause we hoped you'd drive her off for us.'

Har­ry knew at once, from the look on the face of the grey cen­taur hold­ing Hermione, that she had made a ter­ri­ble mis­take in say­ing this. The grey cen­taur threw back his head, his back legs stamp­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, and bel­lowed, 'You see, Ro­nan? They al­ready have the ar­ro­gance of their kind! So we were to do your dirty work, were we, hu­man girl? We were to act as your ser­vants, drive away your en­emies like obe­di­ent hounds?'

'No!' said Hermione in a hor­rorstruck squeak. 'Please - I didn't mean that! I just hoped you'd be able to - to help us -'

But she seemed to be go­ing from bad to worse.

'We do not help hu­mans!' snarled the cen­taur hold­ing Har­ry, tight­en­ing his grip and rear­ing a lit­tle at the same time, so that Har­ry's feet left the ground mo­men­tar­ily. 'We are a race apart and proud to be so. We will not per­mit you to walk from here, boast­ing that we did your bid­ding!'

'We're not go­ing to say any­thing like that!' Har­ry shout­ed. 'We know you didn't do what you did be­cause we want­ed you to -'

But no­body seemed to be lis­ten­ing to him.

A beard­ed cen­taur to­wards the back of the crowd shout­ed, They came here unasked, they must pay the con­se­quences!'

A roar of ap­proval met these words and a dun-​coloured cen­taur shout­ed, They can join the wom­an!'

'You said you didn't hurt the in­no­cent!' shout­ed Hermione, re­al tears slid­ing down her face now. 'We haven't done any­thing to hurt you, we haven't used wands or threats, we just want to go back to school, please let us go back -'

'We are not all like the traitor Firen­ze, hu­man girl!' shout­ed the grey cen­taur, to more neigh­ing roars of ap­proval from his fel­lows. 'Per­haps you thought us pret­ty talk­ing hors­es? We are an an­cient peo­ple who will not stand wiz­ard in­va­sions and in­sults! We do not recog­nise your laws, we do not ac­knowl­edge your su­pe­ri­or­ity, we are -'

But they did not hear what else cen­taurs were, for at that mo­ment there came a crash­ing noise on the edge of the clear­ing so loud that all of them, Har­ry, Hermione and the filty or so cen­taurs fill­ing the clear­ing, looked around. Har­ry's cen­taur let him fall to the ground again as his hands flew to his bow and quiver of ar­rows. Hermione had been dropped, too, and Har­ry hur­ried to­wards her as two thick tree trunks part­ed omi­nous­ly and the mon­strous form of Grawp the gi­ant ap­peared in the gap.

The cen­taurs near­est him backed in­to those be­hind; the clear­ing was now a for­est of bows and ar­rows wait­ing to be fired, all point­ing up­wards at the enor­mous grey­ish face now loom­ing over them from just be­neath the thick canopy of branch­es. Grawp's lop­sid­ed mouth was gap­ing stupid­ly; they could see his brick­like yel­low teeth glim­mer­ing in the half-​light, his dull sludge-​coloured eyes nar­rowed as he squint­ed down at the crea­tures at his feet. Bro­ken ropes trailed from both an­kles.

He opened his mouth even wider.

'Hag­ger.'

Har­ry did not know what 'hag­ger' meant, or what lan­guage it was from, nor did he much care; he was watch­ing Grawp's feet, which were al­most as long as Har­ry's whole body. Hermione gripped his arm tight­ly; the cen­taurs were quite silent, star­ing up at the gi­ant, whose huge, round head moved from side to side as he con­tin­ued to peer amongst them as though look­ing for some­thing he had dropped.

'Hag­ger!' he said again, more in­sis­tent­ly.

'Get away from here, gi­ant!' called Mago­ri­an. 'You are not wel­come among us!'

These words seemed to make no im­pres­sion what­so­ev­er on Grawp. He stooped a lit­tle (the cen­taurs' arms tensed on their bows), then bel­lowed, 'HAG­GER!'

A few of the cen­taurs looked wor­ried now. Hermione, how­ev­er, gave a gasp.

'Har­ry!' she whis­pered. 'I think he's try­ing to say “Ha­grid”!'

At this pre­cise mo­ment Grawp caught sight of them, the on­ly two hu­mans in a sea of cen­taurs. He low­ered his head an­oth­er foot or so, star­ing in­tent­ly at them. Har­ry could feel Hermione shak­ing as Grawp opened his mouth wide again and said, in a deep, rum­bling voice, 'Hermy.'

'Good­ness,' said Hermione, grip­ping Har­ry's arm so tight­ly it was grow­ing numb and look­ing as though she was about to faint, 'he - he re­mem­bered!'

'HERMY!' roared Grawp. 'WHERE HAG­GER?'

'I don't know!' squealed Hermione, ter­ri­fied. 'I'm sor­ry, Grawp, I don't know!'

'GRAWP WANT HAG­GER!'

One of the gi­ant's mas­sive hands reached down. Hermione let out a re­al scream, ran a few steps back­wards and fell over. De­void of a wand, Har­ry braced him­self to punch, kick, bite or what­ev­er else it took as the hand swooped to­wards him and knocked a snow-​white cen­taur off his legs.

It was what the cen­taurs had been wait­ing for — Grawp's out­stretched fin­gers were a foot from Har­ry when fifty ar­rows soared through the air at the gi­ant, pep­per­ing his enor­mous face, caus­ing him to howl with pain and rage and straight­en up, rub­bing his face with his enor­mous hands, break­ing off the ar­row shafts but forc­ing the ar­row­heads in still deep­er.

He yelled and stamped his enor­mous feet and the cen­taurs scat­tered out of the way; peb­ble-​sized droplets of Grawp's blood show­ered Har­ry as he pulled Hermione to her feet and the pair of them ran as fast as they could for the shel­ter of the trees. Once there they looked back; Grawp was snatch­ing blind­ly at the cen­taurs as blood ran down his face; they were re­treat­ing in dis­or­der, gal­lop­ing away through the trees on the oth­er side of the clear­ing. Har­ry and Hermione watched Grawp give an­oth­er roar of fury and plunge af­ter them, smash­ing more trees aside as he went.

'Oh no,' said Hermione, quak­ing so bad­ly that her knees gave way. 'Oh, that was hor­ri­ble. And he might kill them all.'

'I'm not that fussed, to be hon­est,' said Har­ry bit­ter­ly.

The sounds of the gal­lop­ing cen­taurs and the blun­der­ing gi­ant grew fainter and fainter. As Har­ry lis­tened to them, his scar gave an­oth­er great throb and a wave of ter­ror swept over him.

They had wast­ed so much time - they were even fur­ther from res­cu­ing Sir­ius than they had been when he had had the vi­sion. Not on­ly had Har­ry man­aged to lose his wand but they were stuck in the mid­dle of the For­bid­den For­est with no means of trans­port what­so­ev­er.

'Smart plan,' he spat at Hermione, hav­ing to re­lease some of his fury. 'Re­al­ly smart plan. Where do we go from here?'

'We need to get back up to the cas­tle,' said Hermione faint­ly.

'By the time we've done that, Sir­ius'll prob­ably be dead!' said Har­ry, kick­ing a near­by tree in tem­per. A high-​pitched chat­ter­ing start­ed up over­head and he looked up to see an an­gry Bowtruck­le flex­ing its long twiglike fin­gers at him.

'Well, we can't do any­thing with­out wands,' said Hermione hope­less­ly, drag­ging her­self up again. 'Any­way, Har­ry, how ex­act­ly were you plan­ning to get all the way to Lon­don?'

'Yeah, we were just won­der­ing that,' said a fa­mil­iar voice from be­hind her.

Har­ry and Hermione moved to­geth­er in­stinc­tive­ly and peered through the trees.

Ron came in­to sight, close­ly fol­lowed by Gin­ny, Neville and Lu­na. All of them looked a lit­tle the worse for wear - there were sev­er­al long scratch­es run­ning the length of Gin­ny's cheek; a large pur­ple lump was swelling above Neville's right eye; Ron's lip was bleed­ing worse than ev­er - but all were look­ing rather pleased with them­selves.

'So,' said Ron, push­ing aside a low-​hang­ing branch and hold­ing out Har­ry's wand, 'had any ideas?'

'How did you get away?' asked Har­ry in amaze­ment, tak­ing his wand from Ron.

'Cou­ple of Stun­ners, a Dis­arm­ing Charm, Neville brought off a re­al­ly nice lit­tle Im­ped­iment Jinx,' said Ron air­ily, now hand­ing back Hermione's wand, too. 'But Gin­ny was best, she got Mal­foy - Bat Bo­gey Hex - it was su­perb, his whole face was cov­ered in the great flap­ping things. Any­way, we saw you out of the win­dow head­ing in­to the For­est and fol­lowed. What've you done with Um­bridge?'

'She got car­ried away,' said Har­ry. 'By a herd of cen­taurs.'

'And they left you be­hind?' asked Gin­ny, look­ing as­ton­ished.

'No, they got chased off by Grawp,' said Har­ry

'Who's Grawp?' Lu­na asked in­ter­est­ed­ly.

'Ha­grid's lit­tle broth­er,' said Ron prompt­ly. 'Any­way, nev­er mind that now. Har­ry, what did you find out in the fire? Has You-​Know-​Who got Sir­ius or -?'

'Yes,' said Har­ry, as his scar gave an­oth­er painful prick­le, 'and I'm sure Sir­ius is still alive, but I can't see how we're go­ing to get there to help him.'

They all fell silent, look­ing rather scared; the prob­lem fac­ing them seemed in­sur­mount­able.

'Well, we'll have to fly, won't we?' said Lu­na, in the clos­est thing to a mat­ter-​of-​fact voice Har­ry had ev­er heard her use.

'OK,' said Har­ry ir­ri­ta­bly, round­ing on her. 'First of all, “we” aren't do­ing any­thing if you're in­clud­ing your­self in that, and sec­ond of all, Ron's the on­ly one with a broom­stick that isn't be­ing guard­ed by a se­cu­ri­ty troll, so -'

'I've got a broom!' said Gin­ny.

'Yeah, but you're not com­ing,' said Ron an­gri­ly.

'Ex­cuse me, but I care what hap­pens to Sir­ius as much as you do!' said Gin­ny, her jaw set so that her re­sem­blance to Fred and George was sud­den­ly strik­ing.

'You're too -' Har­ry be­gan, but Gin­ny said fierce­ly, 'I'm three years old­er than you were when you fought You-​Know-​Who over the Philoso­pher's Stone, and it's be­cause of me that Mal­foy's stuck back in Um­bridge's of­fice with gi­ant fly­ing bo­gies at­tack­ing him -'

'Yeah, but -'

'We were all in the DA to­geth­er,' said Neville qui­et­ly. 'It was all sup­posed to be about fight­ing You-​Know-​Who, wasn't it? And this is the first chance we've had to do some­thing re­al - or was that all just a game or some­thing?'

'No — of course it wasn't -' said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly.

Then we should come too,' said Neville sim­ply. 'We want to help.'

That's right,' said Lu­na, smil­ing hap­pi­ly.

Har­ry's eyes met Ron's. He knew Ron was think­ing ex­act­ly what he was: if he could have cho­sen any mem­bers of the DA, in ad­di­tion to him­self, Ron and Hermione, to join him in the at­tempt to res­cue Sir­ius, he would not have picked Gin­ny, Neville or Lu­na.

'Well, it doesn't mat­ter, any­way,' said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth, 'be­cause we still don't know how to get there -'

'I thought we'd set­tled that,' said Lu­na mad­den­ing­ly. 'We're fly­ing!'

'Look,' said Ron, bare­ly con­tain­ing his anger, 'you might be able to fly with­out a broom­stick but the rest of us can't sprout wings when­ev­er we -'

There are ways of fly­ing oth­er than with broom­sticks,' said Lu­na serene­ly.

'I's'pose we're go­ing to ride on the back of the Kacky Snor­gle or what­ev­er it is?' Ron de­mand­ed.

The Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack can't fly,' said Lu­na in a dig­ni­fied voice, 'but they can, and Ha­grid says they're very good at find­ing places their rid­ers are look­ing for.'

Har­ry whirled round. Stand­ing be­tween two trees, their white eyes gleam­ing eeri­ly, were two Thes­trals, watch­ing the whis­pered con­ver­sa­tion as though they un­der­stood ev­ery word,

'Yes!' he whis­pered, mov­ing to­wards them. They tossed their rep­til­ian heads, throw­ing back long black manes, and Har­ry stretched out his hand ea­ger­ly and pat­ted the near­est one's shin­ing neck; how could he ev­er have thought them ug­ly?

'Is it those mad horse things?' said Ron un­cer­tain­ly, star­ing at a point slight­ly to the left of the Thes­tral Har­ry was pat­ting. Those ones you can't see un­less you've watched some­one snuff it?'

'Yeah,' said Har­ry.

'How many?'

'Just two.'

'Well, we need three,' said Hermione, who was still look­ing a lit­tle shak­en, but de­ter­mined just the same.

Tour, Hermione,' said Gin­ny, scowl­ing.

'I think there are six of us, ac­tu­al­ly,' said Lu­na calm­ly, count­ing.

'Don't be stupid, we can't all go!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly. 'Look, you three -' he point­ed at Neville, Gin­ny and Lu­na, 'you're not in­volved in this, you're not -'

They burst in­to more protests. His scar gave an­oth­er, more painful, twinge. Ev­ery mo­ment they de­layed was pre­cious; he did not have time to ar­gue.

'OK, fine, it's your choice,' he said curt­ly, 'but un­less we can find more Thes­trals you're not go­ing to be able -'

'Oh, more of them will come,' said Gin­ny con­fi­dent­ly, who like Ron was squint­ing in quite the wrong di­rec­tion, ap­par­ent­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that she was look­ing at the hors­es.

'What makes you think that?'

'Be­cause, in case you hadn't no­ticed, you and Hermione are both cov­ered in blood,' she said cool­ly, 'and we know Ha­grid lures Thes­trals with raw meat. That's prob­ably why these two turned up in the first place.'

Har­ry felt a soft tug on his robes at that mo­ment and looked down to see the clos­est Thes­tral lick­ing his sleeve, which was damp with Grawp's blood.

'OK, then,' he said, a bright idea oc­cur­ring, 'Ron and I will take these two and go ahead, and Hermione can stay here with you three and she'll at­tract more Thes­trals -'

'I'm not stay­ing be­hind!' said Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly.

There's no need,' said Lu­na, smil­ing. 'Look, here come more now… you two must re­al­ly smell…'

Har­ry turned: no few­er than six or sev­en Thes­trals were pick­ing their way through the trees, their great leath­ery wings fold­ed tight to their bod­ies, their eyes gleam­ing through the dark­ness. He had no ex­cuse now.

'All right,' he said an­gri­ly, 'pick one and get on, then.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 34 - The Department of Mysteries


Har­ry wound his hand tight­ly in­to the mane of the near­est Thes­tral, placed a foot on a stump near­by and scram­bled clum­si­ly on to the hors­es silken back. It did not ob­ject, but twist­ed its head around, fangs bared, and at­tempt­ed to con­tin­ue its ea­ger lick­ing of his robes.

He found there was a way of lodg­ing his knees be­hind the wing joints that made him feel more se­cure, then looked around at the oth­ers. Neville had heaved him­self over the back of the next Thes­tral and was now at­tempt­ing to swing one short leg over the crea­ture's back. Lu­na was al­ready in place, sit­ting side-​sad­dle and ad­just­ing her robes as though she did this ev­ery day. Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny, how­ev­er, were still stand­ing mo­tion­less on the spot, open-​mouthed and star­ing.

'What?' he said.

'How're we sup­posed to get on?' said Ron faint­ly. 'When we can't see the things?'

'Oh, it's easy,' said Lu­na, slid­ing oblig­ing­ly from her Thes­tral and march­ing over to him, Hermione and Gin­ny. 'Come here…'

She pulled them over to the oth­er Thes­trals stand­ing around and one by one man­aged to help them on to the back of their mount. All three looked ex­treme­ly ner­vous as she wound their hands in­to their hors­es mane and told them to grip tight­ly be­fore she got back on to her own steed.

This is mad,' Ron mur­mured, mov­ing his free hand gin­ger­ly up and down his horse's neck. 'Mad… if I could just see it -'

'You'd bet­ter hope it stays in­vis­ible,' said Har­ry dark­ly. 'We all ready, then?'

They all nod­ded and he saw five pairs of knees tight­en be­neath their robes.

'OK…'

He looked down at the back of his Thes­tral's glossy black head and swal­lowed.

'Min­istry of Mag­ic, vis­itors' en­trance, Lon­don, then,' he said un­cer­tain­ly. 'Er… if you know… where to go…"

For a mo­ment Har­ry's Thes­tral did noth­ing at all; then, with a sweep­ing move­ment that near­ly un­seat­ed him, the wings on ei­ther side ex­tend­ed; the horse crouched slow­ly, then rock­et­ed up­wards so fast and so steeply that Har­ry had to clench his arms and legs tight­ly around the horse to avoid slid­ing back­wards over its bony rump. He closed his eyes and pressed his face down in­to the horse's silky mane as they burst through the top­most branch­es of the trees and soared out in­to a blood-​red sun­set.

Har­ry did not think he had ev­er moved so fast: the Thes­tral streaked over the cas­tle, its wide wings hard­ly beat­ing; the cool­ing air was slap­ping Har­ry's face; eyes screwed up against the rush­ing wind, he looked round and saw his five fel­lows soar­ing along be­hind him, each of them bent as low as pos­si­ble in­to the neck of their Thes­tral to pro­tect them­selves from his slip­stream.

They were over the Hog­warts grounds, they had passed Hogsmeade; Har­ry could see moun­tains and gul­lies be­low them. As the day­light be­gan to fail, Har­ry saw small col­lec­tions of lights as they passed over more vil­lages, then a wind­ing road on which a sin­gle car was beetling its way home through the hills…

This is bizarre!' Har­ry bare­ly heard Ron yell from some­where be­hind him, and he imag­ined how it must feel to be speed­ing along at this height with no vis­ible means of sup­port.

Twi­light fell: the sky was turn­ing to a light, dusky pur­ple lit­tered with tiny sil­ver stars, and soon on­ly the lights of Mug­gle towns gave them any clue of how far from the ground they were, or how very fast they were trav­el­ling. Har­ry's arms were wrapped tight­ly around his hors­es neck as he willed it to go even faster. How much time had elapsed since he had seen Sir­ius ly­ing on the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies floor? How much longer would Si­nus be able to re­sist Volde­mort? All Har­ry knew for sure was that his god­fa­ther had nei­ther done as Volde­mort want­ed, nor died, for he was con­vinced that ei­ther out­come would have caused him to feel Volde­mort's ju­bi­la­tion or fury course through his own body, mak­ing his scar sear as painful­ly as it had on the night Mr Weasley was at­tacked.

On they flew through the gath­er­ing dark­ness; Har­ry's face felt stiff and cold, his legs numb from grip­ping the Thes­trals sides so tight­ly, but he did not dare shift his po­si­tion lest he slip… he was deaf from the thun­der­ing rush of air in his ears, and his mouth was dry and frozen from the cold night wind. He had lost all sense of how far they had come; all his faith was in the beast be­neath him, still streak­ing pur­pose­ful­ly through the night, bare­ly flap­ping its wings as it sped ev­er on­wards.

If they were too late…

He's still alive, he's still fight­ing, I can feel it…

If Volde­mort de­cid­ed Sir­ius was not go­ing to crack…

I'd know…

Har­rys stom­ach gave a jolt; the Thes­trals head was sud­den­ly point­ing to­wards the ground and he ac­tu­al­ly slid for­wards a few inch­es along its neck. They were de­scend­ing at last… he thought he heard a shriek be­hind him and twist­ed around dan­ger­ous­ly, but could see no sign of a falling body .'.. pre­sum­ably they had all re­ceived a shock from the change of di­rec­tion, just as he had.

And now bright or­ange lights were grow­ing larg­er and rounder on all sides; they could see the tops of build­ings, streams of head­lights like lu­mi­nous in­sect eyes, squares of pale yel­low that were win­dows. Quite sud­den­ly, it seemed, they were hurtling to­wards the pave­ment; Har­ry gripped the Thes­tral with ev­ery last ounce of his strength, braced for a sud­den im­pact, but the horse touched the dark ground as light­ly as a shad­ow and Har­ry slid from its back, look­ing around at the street where the over­flow­ing skip still stood a short way from the van­dalised tele­phone box, both drained of colour in the flat or­ange glare of the street­lights.

Ron land­ed a short way off and top­pled im­me­di­ate­ly from his Thes­tral on to the pave­ment.

'Nev­er again,' he said, strug­gling to his feet. He made as though to stride away from his Thes­tral, but, un­able to see it, col­lid­ed with its hindquar­ters and al­most fell over again. 'Nev­er, ev­er again… that was the worst -'

Hermione and Gin­ny touched down on ei­ther side of him: both slid off their mounts a lit­tle more grace­ful­ly than Ron, though with sim­ilar ex­pres­sions of re­lief at be­ing back on firm ground; Neville jumped down, shak­ing; and Lu­na dis­mount­ed smooth­ly.

'Where do we go from here, then?' she asked Har­ry in a po­lite­ly in­ter­est­ed voice, as though this was all a rather in­ter­est­ing day-​trip.

'Over here,' he said. He gave his Thes­tral a quick, grate­ful pat, then led the way quick­ly to the bat­tered tele­phone box and opened the door. 'Come on!' he urged the oth­ers, as they hes­itat­ed.

Ron and Gin­ny marched in obe­di­ent­ly; Hermione, Neville and Lu­na squashed them­selves in af­ter them; Har­ry took one glance back at the Thes­trals, now for­ag­ing for scraps of rot­ten food in­side the skip, then forced him­self in­to the box af­ter Lu­na.

'Who­ev­er's near­est the re­ceiv­er, di­al six two four four two!' he said.

Ron did it, his arm bent bizarrely to reach the di­al; as it whirred back in­to place the cool fe­male voice sound­ed in­side the box.

'Wel­come to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Please state your name and busi­ness.'

'Har­ry Pot­ter, Ron Weasley Hermione Granger,' Har­ry said very quick­ly, 'Gin­ny Weasley, Neville Long­bot­tom, Lu­na Love­good… we're here to save some­one, un­less your Min­istry can do it first!'

Thank you,' said the cool fe­male voice. 'Vis­itors, please take the badges and at­tach them to the front of your robes.'

Half a dozen badges slid out of the met­al chute where re­turned coins nor­mal­ly ap­peared. Hermione scooped them up and hand­ed them mute­ly to Har­ry over Gin­ny's head; he glanced at the top­most one, Har­ry Pot­ter, Res­cue Mis­sion .

'Vis­itors to the Min­istry, you are re­quired to sub­mit to a search and present your wands for reg­is­tra­tion at the se­cu­ri­ty desk, which is lo­cat­ed at the far end of the Atri­um.'

'Fine!' Har­ry said loud­ly, as his scar gave an­oth­er throb. 'Now can we move?'

The floor of the tele­phone box shud­dered and the pave­ment rose up past its glass win­dows; the scav­eng­ing Thes­trals were slid­ing out of sight; black­ness closed over their heads and with a dull grind­ing noise they sank down in­to the depths of the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

A chink of soft gold­en light hit their feet and, widen­ing, rose up their bod­ies. Har­ry bent his knees and held his wand as ready as he could in such cramped con­di­tions as he peered through the glass to see whether any­body was wait­ing for them in the Atri­um, but it seemed to be com­plete­ly emp­ty. The light was dim­mer than it had been by day; there were no fires burn­ing un­der the man­tel­pieces set in­to the walls, but as the lift slid smooth­ly to a halt he saw that gold­en sym­bols con­tin­ued to twist sin­uous­ly in the dark blue ceil­ing.

The Min­istry of Mag­ic wish­es you a pleas­ant evening,' said the wom­an's voice.

The door of the tele­phone box burst open; Har­ry top­pled out of it, close­ly fol­lowed by Neville and Lu­na. The on­ly sound in the Atri­um was the steady rush of wa­ter from the gold­en foun­tain, where jets from the wands of the witch and wiz­ard, the point of the cen­taur's ar­row, the tip of the gob­lin's hat and the house-​elf's ears con­tin­ued to gush in­to the sur­round­ing pool.

'Come on,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly and the six of them sprint­ed off down the hall, Har­ry in the lead, past the foun­tain to­wards the desk where the watch­wiz­ard who had weighed Har­ry's wand had sat, and which was now de­sert­ed.

Har­ry felt sure there ought to be a se­cu­ri­ty per­son there, sure their ab­sence was an omi­nous sign, and his feel­ing of fore­bod­ing in­creased as they passed through the gold­en gates to the lifts. He pressed the near­est 'down' but­ton and a lift clat­tered in­to sight al­most im­me­di­ate­ly, the gold­en grilles slid apart with a great, echo­ing clank­ing and they dashed in­side. Har­ry stabbed the num­ber nine but­ton; the grilles closed with a bang and the lift be­gan to de­scend, jan­gling and rat­tling. Har­ry had not re­alised how noisy the lifts were on the day he had come with Mr Weasley; he was sure the din would raise ev­ery se­cu­ri­ty per­son with­in the build­ing, yet when the lift halt­ed, the cool fe­male voice said, 'De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies,' and the grilles slid open. They stepped out in­to the cor­ri­dor where noth­ing was mov­ing but the near­est torch­es, flick­er­ing in the rush of air from the lift.

Har­ry turned to­wards the plain black door. Af­ter months and months of dream­ing about it, he was here at last.

'Let's go,' he whis­pered, and he led the way down the cor­ri­dor, Lu­na right be­hind him, gaz­ing around with her mouth slight­ly open.

'OK, lis­ten,' said Har­ry stop­ping again with­in six feet of the door. 'Maybe… maybe a cou­ple of peo­ple should stay here as a — as a look­out, and -'

'And how're we go­ing to let you know some­thing's com­ing?' asked Gin­ny, her eye­brows raised. 'You could be miles away.'

'We're com­ing with you, Har­ry,' said Neville.

'Let's get on with it,' said Ron firm­ly.

Har­ry still did not want to take them all with him, but it seemed he had no choice. He turned to face the door and walked for­wards… just as it had in his dream, it swung open and he marched over the thresh­old, the oth­ers at his heels.

They were stand­ing in a large, cir­cu­lar room. Ev­ery­thing in here was black in­clud­ing the floor and ceil­ing; iden­ti­cal, un­marked, han­dle­less black doors were set at in­ter­vals all around the black walls, in­ter­spersed with branch­es of can­dles whose flames burned blue; their cool, shim­mer­ing light re­flect­ed in the shin­ing mar­ble floor made it look as though there was dark wa­ter un­der­foot.

'Some­one shut the door,' Har­ry mut­tered.

He re­gret­ted giv­ing this or­der the mo­ment Neville had obeyed it. With­out the long chink of light from the torch­lit cor­ri­dor be­hind them, the place be­came so dark that for a mo­ment the on­ly things they could see were the bunch­es of shiv­er­ing blue flames on the walls and their ghost­ly re­flec­tions in the floor.

In his dream, Har­ry had al­ways walked pur­pose­ful­ly across this room to the door im­me­di­ate­ly op­po­site the en­trance and walked on. But there were around a dozen doors here. Just as he was gaz­ing ahead at the doors op­po­site him, try­ing to de­cide which was the right one, there was a great rum­bling noise and the can­dles be­gan to move side­ways. The cir­cu­lar wall was ro­tat­ing.

Hermione grabbed Har­ry's arm as though fright­ened the floor might move, too, but it did not. For a few sec­onds, the blue flames around them were blurred to re­sem­ble neon lines as the wall sped around; then, quite as sud­den­ly as it had start­ed, the rum­bling stopped and ev­ery­thing be­came sta­tion­ary once again.

Har­ry's eyes had blue streaks burned in­to them; it was all he could see.

'What was that about?' whis­pered Ron fear­ful­ly.

'I think it was to stop us know­ing which door we came in through,' said Gin­ny in a hushed voice.

Har­ry re­alised at once she was right: he could no soon­er iden­ti­fy the ex­it door than lo­cate an ant on the jet-​black floor; and the door through which they need­ed to pro­ceed could be any one of the dozen sur­round­ing them.

'How're we go­ing to get back out?' said Neville un­com­fort­ably.

'Well, that doesn't mat­ter now,' said Har­ry force­ful­ly, blink­ing to try to erase the blue lines from his vi­sion, and clutch­ing his wand tighter than ev­er, 'we won't need to get out till we've found Si­nus -'

'Don't go call­ing for him, though!' Hermione said ur­gent­ly; but Har­ry had nev­er need­ed her ad­vice less, his in­stinct was to keep as qui­et as pos­si­ble.

'Where do we go, then, Har­ry?' Ron asked.

'I don't -' Har­ry be­gan. He swal­lowed. 'In the dreams I went through the door at the end of the cor­ri­dor from the lifts in­to a dark room - that's this one - and then I went through an­oth­er door in­to a room that kind of… glit­ters. We should try a few doors,' he said hasti­ly, 'I'll know the right way when I see it. C'mon.'

He marched straight at the door now fac­ing him, the oth­ers fol­low­ing close be­hind him, set his left hand against its cool, shin­ing sur­face, raised his wand ready to strike the mo­ment it opened, and pushed.

It swung open eas­ily.

Af­ter the dark­ness of the first room, the lamps hang­ing low on gold­en chains from this ceil­ing gave the im­pres­sion that this long rect­an­gu­lar room was much brighter, though there were no glit­ter­ing, shim­mer­ing lights as Har­ry had seen in his dreams. The place was quite emp­ty ex­cept for a few desks and, in the very mid­dle of the room, an enor­mous glass tank of deep green liq­uid, big enough for all of them to swim in; a num­ber of pearly-​white ob­jects were drift­ing around lazi­ly in it.

'What're those things?' whis­pered Ron.

'Dun­no,' said Har­ry.

'Are they fish?' breathed Gin­ny.

'Aqua­vir­ius Mag­gots!' said Lu­na ex­cit­ed­ly. 'Dad said the Min­istry were breed­ing —'

'No,' said Hermione. She sound­ed odd. She moved for­ward to look through the side of the tank. They're brains.'

'Brains?'

'Yes… I won­der what they're do­ing with them?'

Har­ry joined her at the tank. Sure enough, there could be no mis­take now he saw them at close quar­ters. Glim­mer­ing eeri­ly, they drift­ed in and out of sight in the depths of the green liq­uid, look­ing some­thing like slimy cauliflow­ers.

'Let's get out of here,' said Har­ry. This isn't right, we need to try an­oth­er door.'

There are doors here, too,' said Ron, point­ing around the walls. Har­ry's heart sank; how big was this place?

'In my dream I went through that dark room in­to the sec­ond one,' he said. 'I think we should go back and try from there.'

So they hur­ried back in­to the dark, cir­cu­lar room; the ghost­ly shapes of the brains were now swim­ming be­fore Har­ry's eyes in­stead of the blue can­dle flames.

'Wait!' said Hermione sharply, as Lu­na made to close the door of the brain room be­hind them. 'Fla­grate!'

She drew with her wand in midair and a fiery 'X' ap­peared on the door. No soon­er had the door clicked shut be­hind them than there was a great rum­bling, and once again the wall be­gan to re­volve very fast, but now there was a great red-​gold blur in amongst the faint blue and, when all be­came still again, the fiery cross still burned, show­ing the door they had al­ready tried.

'Good think­ing,' said Har­ry. 'OK, let's try this one -'

Again, he strode di­rect­ly at the door fac­ing him and pushed it open, his wand still raised, the oth­ers at his heels.

This room was larg­er than the last, dim­ly lit and rect­an­gu­lar, and the cen­tre of it was sunken, form­ing a great stone pit some twen­ty feet deep. They were stand­ing on the top­most tier of what seemed to be stone bench­es run­ning all around the room and de­scend­ing in steep steps like an am­phithe­atre, or the court­room in which Har­ry had been tried by the Wiz­eng­amot. In­stead of a chained chair, how­ev­er, there was a raised stone dais in the cen­tre of the pit, on which stood a stone arch­way that looked so an­cient, cracked and crum­bling that Har­ry was amazed the thing was still stand­ing. Un­sup­port­ed by any sur­round­ing wall, the arch­way was hung with a tat­tered black cur­tain or veil which, de­spite the com­plete still­ness of the cold sur­round­ing air, was flut­ter­ing very slight­ly as though it had just been touched.

'Who's there?' said Har­ry, jump­ing down on to the bench be­low. There was no an­swer­ing voice, but the veil con­tin­ued to flut­ter and sway.

'Care­ful!' whis­pered Hermione.

Har­ry scram­bled down the bench­es one by one un­til he reached the stone bot­tom of the sunken pit. His foot­steps echoed loud­ly as he walked slow­ly to­wards the dais. The point­ed arch­way looked much taller from where he now stood than it had when he'd been look­ing down on it from above. Still the veil swayed gen­tly, as though some­body had just passed through it.

'Sir­ius?' Har­ry spoke again, but more qui­et­ly now that he was near­er.

He had the strangest feel­ing that there was some­one stand­ing right be­hind the veil on the oth­er side of the arch­way. Grip­ping his wand very tight­ly, he edged around the dais, but there was no­body there; all that could be seen was the oth­er side of the tat­tered black veil.

'Let's go,' called Hermione from halfway up the stone steps. This isn't right, Har­ry, come on, let's go.'

She sound­ed scared, much more scared than she had in the room where the brains swam, yet Har­ry thought the arch­way had a kind of beau­ty about it, old though it was. The gen­tly rip­pling veil in­trigued him; he felt a very strong in­cli­na­tion to climb up on the dais and walk through it.

'Har­ry, let's go, OK?' said Hermione more force­ful­ly.

'OK,' he said, but did not move. He had just heard some­thing. There were faint whis­per­ing, mur­mur­ing nois­es com­ing from the oth­er side of the veil.

'What are you say­ing?' he said, very loud­ly, so that his words echoed all around the stone bench­es.

'No­body's talk­ing, Har­ry!' said Hermione, now mov­ing over to him.

'Some­one's whis­per­ing be­hind there,' he said, mov­ing out of her reach and con­tin­uing to frown at the veil. 'Is that you, Ron?'

'I'm here, mate,' said Ron, ap­pear­ing around the side of the arch­way.

'Can't any­one else hear it?' Har­ry de­mand­ed, for the whis­per­ing and mur­mur­ing was be­com­ing loud­er; with­out re­al­ly mean­ing to put it there, he found his foot was on the dais.

'I can hear them too,' breathed Lu­na, join­ing them around the side of the arch­way and gaz­ing at the sway­ing veil. There are peo­ple in there!'

'What do you mean, “in there”?' de­mand­ed Hermione, jump­ing down from the bot­tom step and sound­ing much an­gri­er than the oc­ca­sion war­rant­ed, 'there isn't any “in there”, it's just an arch­way, there's no room for any­body to be there. Har­ry, stop it, come away -'

She grabbed his arm and pulled, but he re­sist­ed.

'Har­ry, we are sup­posed to be here for Sir­ius!' she said in a high-​pitched, strained voice.

'Sir­ius,' Har­ry re­peat­ed, still gaz­ing, mes­merised, at the con­tin­uous­ly sway­ing veil. 'Yeah…'

Some­thing fi­nal­ly slid back in­to place in his brain; Sir­ius, cap­tured, bound and tor­tured, and he was star­ing at this arch­way…

He took sev­er­al paces back from the dais and wrenched his eyes from the veil.

'Let's go,' he said.

That's what I've been try­ing to - well, come on, then!' said Hermione, and she led the way back around the dais. On the oth­er side, Gin­ny and Neville were star­ing, ap­par­ent­ly en­tranced, at the veil too. With­out speak­ing, Hermione took hold of Gin­ny's arm,

J^^^jj l^^w

Ron grabbed Neville's, and they marched them firm­ly back to the low­est stone bench and clam­bered all the way back up to the door.

'What d'you reck­on that arch was?' Har­ry asked Hermione as they re­gained the dark cir­cu­lar room.

'I don't know, but what­ev­er it was, it was dan­ger­ous,' she said firm­ly, again in­scrib­ing a fiery cross on the door.

Once more, the wall span and be­came still again. Har­ry ap­proached an­oth­er door at ran­dom and pushed. It did not move.

'What's wrong?' said Hermione.

'It's… locked…' said Har­ry, throw­ing his weight at the door, but it didn't budge.

This is it, then, isn't it?' said Ron ex­cit­ed­ly, join­ing Har­ry in the at­tempt to force the door open. 'Bound to be!'

'Get out of the way!' said Hermione sharply. She point­ed her wand at the place where a lock would have been on an or­di­nary door and said, 'Alo­homo­ra!'

Noth­ing hap­pened.

'Sir­ius's knife!' said Har­ry. He pulled it out from in­side his robes and slid it in­to the crack be­tween the door and the wall. The oth­ers all watched ea­ger­ly as he ran it from top to bot­tom, with­drew it and then flung his shoul­der again at the door. It re­mained as firm­ly shut as ev­er. What was more, when Har­ry looked down at the knife, he saw the blade had melt­ed.

'Right, we're leav­ing that room,' said Hermione de­ci­sive­ly.

'But what if that's the one?' said Ron, star­ing at it with a mix­ture of ap­pre­hen­sion and long­ing.

'It can't be, Har­ry could get through all the doors in his dream,' said Hermione, mark­ing the door with an­oth­er fiery cross as Har­ry re­placed the now-​use­less han­dle of Sir­ius's knife in his pock­et.

'You know what could be in there?' said Lu­na ea­ger­ly, as the wall start­ed to spin yet again.

'Some­thing blib­ber­ing, no doubt,' said Hermione un­der her breath and Neville gave a ner­vous lit­tle laugh.

The wall slid to a halt and Har­ry, with a feel­ing of in­creas­ing des­per­ation, pushed the next door open.

This is it!'

He knew it at once by the beau­ti­ful, danc­ing, di­amond-​sparkling light. As Har­rys eyes be­came ac­cus­tomed to the bril­liant glare, he saw clocks gleam­ing from ev­ery sur­face, large and small, grand­fa­ther and car­riage, hang­ing in spaces be­tween the book­cas­es or stand­ing on desks rang­ing the length of the room, so that a busy, re­lent­less tick­ing filled the place like thou­sands of mi­nus­cule, march­ing foot­steps. The source of the danc­ing, di­amond-​bright light was a tow­er­ing crys­tal bell jar that stood at the far end of the room.

This way!'

Har­ry's heart was pump­ing fran­ti­cal­ly now that he knew they were on the right track; he led the way down the nar­row space be­tween the lines of desks, head­ing, as he had done in his dream, for the source of the light, the crys­tal bell jar quite as tall as he was that stood on a desk and ap­peared to be full of a bil­low­ing, glit­ter­ing wind.

'Oh, lookl' said Gin­ny, as they drew near­er, point­ing at the very heart of the bell jar.

Drift­ing along in the sparkling cur­rent in­side was a tiny, jew­el-​bright egg. As it rose in the jar, it cracked open and a hum­ming­bird emerged, which was car­ried to the very top of the jar, but as it fell on the draught its feath­ers be­came bedrag­gled and damp again, and by the time it had been borne back to the bot­tom of the jar it had been en­closed once more in its egg.

'Keep go­ing!' said Har­ry sharply, be­cause Gin­ny showed signs of want­ing to stop and watch the egg's progress back in­to a bird.

'You daw­dled enough by that old arch!' she said cross­ly, but fol­lowed him past the bell jar to the on­ly door be­hind it.

This is it,' Har­ry said again, and his heart was now pump­ing so hard and fast he felt it must in­ter­fere with his speech, 'it's through here -'

He glanced around at them all; they had their wands out and looked sud­den­ly se­ri­ous and anx­ious. He looked back at the door and pushed. It swung open.

They were there, they had found the place: high as a church and full of noth­ing but tow­er­ing shelves cov­ered in small, dusty, glass orbs. They glim­mered dul­ly in the light is­su­ing from more can­dle-​brack­ets set at in­ter­vals along the shelves. Like those in the cir­cu­lar room be­hind them, their flames were burn­ing blue. The room was very cold.

Har­ry edged for­ward and peered down one of the shad­owy aisles be­tween two rows of shelves. He could not hear any­thing or see the slight­est sign of move­ment.

'You said it was row nine­ty-​sev­en,' whis­pered Hermione.

'Yeah,' breathed Har­ry, look­ing up at the end of the clos­est row. Be­neath the branch of blue-​glow­ing can­dles pro­trud­ing from it glim­mered the sil­ver fig­ure fifty-​three.

'We need to go right, I think,' whis­pered Hermione, squint­ing to the next row. 'Yes… that's fifty-​four…'

'Keep your wands ready,' Har­ry said soft­ly.

They crept for­ward, glanc­ing be­hind them as they went on down the long al­leys of shelves, the fur­ther ends of which were in near-​to­tal dark­ness. Tiny, yel­low­ing la­bels had been stuck be­neath each glass orb on the shelves. Some of them had a weird, liq­uid glow; oth­ers were as dull and dark with­in as blown light bulbs.

They passed row eighty-​four… eighty-​five… Har­ry was lis­ten­ing hard for the slight­est sound of move­ment, but Sir­ius might be gagged now, or else un­con­scious… or, said an un­bid­den voice in­side his head, he might al­ready be dead…

I'd have felt it, he told him­self, his heart now ham­mer­ing against his Adam's ap­ple, I'd al­ready know…

'Nine­ty-​sev­en!' whis­pered Hermione.

They stood grouped around the end of the row, gaz­ing down the al­ley be­side it. There was no­body there.

'He's right down at the end,' said Har­ry, whose mouth had be­come slight­ly dry. 'You can't see prop­er­ly from here.'

And he led them be­tween the tow­er­ing rows of glass balls, some of which glowed soft­ly as they passed…

'He should be near here,' whis­pered Har­ry, con­vinced that ev­ery step was go­ing to bring the ragged form of Sir­ius in­to view on the dark­ened floor. 'Any­where here… re­al­ly close…'

'Har­ry?' said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly, but he did not want to re­spond. His mouth was very dry.

'Some­where about… here…' he said.

They had reached the end of the row and emerged in­to more dim can­dle­light. There was no­body there. All was echo­ing, dusty si­lence.

'He might be…' Har­ry whis­pered hoarse­ly, peer­ing down the next al­ley. 'Or maybe…' He hur­ried to look down the one be­yond that.

'Har­ry?' said Hermione again.

'What?' he snarled.

'I… I don't think Sir­ius is here.'

No­body spoke. Har­ry did not want to look at any of them. He felt sick. He did not un­der­stand why Sir­ius was not here. He had to be here. This was where he, Har­ry, had seen him…

He ran up the space at the end of the rows, star­ing down them. Emp­ty aisle af­ter emp­ty aisle flick­ered past. He ran the oth­er way, back past his star­ing com­pan­ions. There was no sign of Sir­ius any­where, nor any hint of a strug­gle.

'Har­ry?' Ron called.

'What?'

He did not want to hear what Ron had to say; did not want to hear Ron tell him he had been stupid or sug­gest that they ought to go back to Hog­warts, but the heat was ris­ing in his face and he felt as though he would like to skulk down here in the dark­ness for a long while be­fore fac­ing the bright­ness of the Atri­um above and the oth­ers' ac­cus­ing stares…

'Have you seen this?' said Ron,

'What?' said Har­ry, but ea­ger­ly this time - it had to be a sign that Sir­ius had been there, a clue. He strode back to where they were all stand­ing, a lit­tle way down row nine­ty-​sev­en, but found noth­ing ex­cept Ron star­ing at one of the dusty glass spheres on the shelf.

What?' Har­ry re­peat­ed glum­ly.

'It's — it's got your name on,' said Ron.

Har­ry moved a lit­tle clos­er. Ron was point­ing at one of the small glass spheres that glowed with a dull in­ner light, though it was very dusty and ap­peared not to have been touched for many years.

'My name?' said Har­ry blankly.

He stepped for­wards. Not as tall as Ron, he had to crane his neck to read the yel­low­ish la­bel af­fixed to the shelf right be­neath j^^^ ^^^H

the dusty glass ball. In spi­dery writ­ing was writ­ten a date of some six­teen years pre­vi­ous­ly, and be­low that:

S.P.T. to A.P.W.B.D.

Dark Lord and (?)Har­ry Pot­ter

Har­ry stared at it.

'What is it?' Ron asked, sound­ing un­nerved. 'What's your name do­ing down here?'

He glanced along at the oth­er la­bels on that stretch of shelf.

'I'm not here,' he said, sound­ing per­plexed. 'None of the rest of us are here.'

'Har­ry, I don't think you should touch it,' said Hermione sharply, as he stretched out his hand.

'Why not?' he said. 'It's some­thing to do with me, isn't it?'

'Don't, Har­ry,' said Neville sud­den­ly. Har­ry looked at him. Neville's round face was shin­ing slight­ly with sweat. He looked as though he could not take much more sus­pense.

'It's got my name on,' said Har­ry.

And feel­ing slight­ly reck­less, he closed his fin­gers around the dusty ball's sur­face. He had ex­pect­ed it to feel cold, but it did not. On the con­trary, it felt as though it had been ly­ing in the sun for hours, as though the glow of light with­in was warm­ing it. Ex­pect­ing, even hop­ing, that some­thing dra­mat­ic was go­ing to hap­pen, some­thing ex­cit­ing that might make their long and dan­ger­ous jour­ney worth­while af­ter all, Har­ry lift­ed the glass ball down from its shelf and stared at it.

Noth­ing what­so­ev­er hap­pened. The oth­ers moved in clos­er around Har­ry, gaz­ing at the orb as he brushed it free of the clog­ging dust.

And then, from right be­hind them, a drawl­ing voice spoke.

'Very good, Pot­ter. Now turn around, nice and slow­ly, and give that to me.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 35 - Beyond the Veil


Black shapes were emerg­ing out of thin air all around them, block­ing their way left and right; eyes glint­ed through slits in hoods, a dozen lit wand tips were point­ing di­rect­ly at their hearts; Gin­ny gave a gasp of hor­ror.

To me, Pot­ter,' re­peat­ed the drawl­ing voice of Lu­cius Mal­foy as he held out his hand, palm up.

Har­rys in­sides plum­met­ed sick­en­ing­ly. They were trapped, and out­num­bered two to one.

To me,' said Mal­foy yet again.

'Where's Sir­ius?' Har­ry said.

Sev­er­al of the Death Eaters laughed; a harsh fe­male voice from the midst of the shad­owy fig­ures to Har­ry's left said tri­umphant­ly, The Dark Lord al­ways knows!'

'Al­ways,' echoed Mal­foy soft­ly. 'Now, give me the prophe­cy Pot­ter.'

'I want to know where Sir­ius is!'

'I want to know where Sir­ius is!' mim­icked the wom­an to his left.

She and her fel­low Death Eaters had closed in so that they were mere feet away from Har­ry and the oth­ers, the light from their wands daz­zling Har­ry's eyes.

'You've got him,' said Har­ry, ig­nor­ing the ris­ing pan­ic in his chest, the dread he had been fight­ing since they had first en­tered the nine­ty-​sev­enth row. 'He's here. I know he is.'

The lit­tle ba­by woke up jwight­ened and fort what it dweamed was twoo,' said the wom­an in a hor­ri­ble, mock ba­by voice. Har­ry felt Ron stir be­side him.

'Don't do any­thing,' Har­ry mut­tered. 'Not yet -'

The wom­an who had mim­icked him let out a rau­cous scream of laugh­ter.

'You hear him? You hear him? Giv­ing in­struc­tions to the oth­er chil­dren as though he thinks of fight­ing us!'

'Oh, you don't know Pot­ter as I do, Bel­la­trix,' said Mal­foy soft­ly. 'He has a great weak­ness for hero­ics; the Dark Lord un­der­stands this about him. Now give me the prophe­cy, Pot­ter.'

'I know Sir­ius is here,' said Har­ry, though pan­ic was caus­ing his chest to con­strict and he felt as though he could not breathe prop­er­ly. 'I know you've got him!'

More of the Death Eaters laughed, though the wom­an laughed loud­est of all.

'It's time you learned the dif­fer­ence be­tween life and dreams, Pot­ter,' said Mal­foy. 'Now give me the prophe­cy, or we start us­ing wands.'

'Go on, then,' said Har­ry, rais­ing his own wand to chest height. As he did so, the five wands of Ron, Hermione, Neville, Gin­ny and Lu­na rose on ei­ther side of him. The knot in Har­ry's stom­ach tight­ened. If Sir­ius re­al­ly was not here, he had led his friends to their deaths for no rea­son at all…

But the Death Eaters did not strike.

'Hand over the prophe­cy and no one need get hurt,' said Mal­foy cool­ly.

It was Har­ry's turn to laugh.

'Yeah, right!' he said. '1 give you this - prophe­cy, is it? And you'll just let us skip off home, will you?'

The words were hard­ly out of his mouth when the fe­male Death Eater shrieked: 'Ac­cto proph—'

Har­ry was just ready for her: he shout­ed 'Pro­tego!' be­fore she had fin­ished her spell, and though the glass sphere slipped to the tips of his fin­gers he man­aged to cling on to it.

'Oh, he knows how to play, lit­tle bit­ty ba­by Pot­ter,' she said, her mad eyes star­ing through the slits in her hood. 'Very well, then -'

'I TOLD YOU, NO!' Lu­cius Mal­foy roared at the wom­an. 'If you smash it -!'

Har­ry's mind was rac­ing. The Death Eaters want­ed this dusty spun-​glass sphere. He had no in­ter­est in it. He just want­ed to get them all out of this alive, to make sure none of his friends paid a ter­ri­ble price for his stu­pid­ity…

The wom­an stepped for­ward, away from her fel­lows, and pulled off her hood. Azk­aban had hol­lowed Bel­la­trix Lestrange's face, mak­ing it gaunt and skull-​like, but it was alive with a fever­ish, fa­nat­ical glow.

'You need more per­sua­sion?' she said, her chest ris­ing and falling rapid­ly. 'Very well - take the small­est one,' she or­dered the Death Eaters be­side her. 'Let him watch while we tor­ture the lit­tle girl. I'll do it.'

Har­ry felt the oth­ers close in around Gin­ny; he stepped side­ways so that he was right in front of her, the prophe­cy held up to his chest.

'You'll have to smash this if you want to at­tack any of us,' he told Bel­la­trix. 'I don't think your boss will be too pleased if you come back with­out it, will he?'

She did not move; she mere­ly stared at him, the tip of her tongue moist­en­ing her thin mouth.

'So,' said Har­ry, 'what kind of prophe­cy are we talk­ing about, any­way?'

He could not think what to do but to keep talk­ing. Neville's arm was pressed against his, and he could feel him shak­ing; he could feel one of the oth­ers' quick­ened breath on the back of his head. He was hop­ing they were all think­ing hard about ways to get out of this, be­cause his mind was blank.

'What kind of prophe­cy?' re­peat­ed Bel­la­trix, the grin fad­ing from her face. 'You jest, Har­ry Pot­ter.'

'Nope, not jest­ing,' said Har­ry, his eyes flick­ing from Death Eater to Death Eater,.look­ing for a weak link, a space through which they could es­cape. 'How come Volde­mort wants it?'

Sev­er­al of the Death Eaters let out low hiss­es.

'You dare speak his name?' whis­pered Bel­la­trix.

'Yeah,' said Har­ry, main­tain­ing his tight grip on the glass ball, ex­pect­ing an­oth­er at­tempt to be­witch it from him. 'Yeah, I've got no prob­lem with say­ing Vol—'

'Shut your mouth!' Bel­la­trix shrieked. 'You dare speak his name with your un­wor­thy lips, you dare be­smirch it with your half-​blood's tongue, you dare -'

'Did you know he's a half-​blood too?' said Har­ry reck­less­ly. Hermione gave a lit­tle moan in his ear. 'Volde­mort? Yeah, his moth­er was a witch but his dad was a Mug­gle - or has he been telling you lot he's pure-​blood?'

'STl/PEF—'

'NO/'

A jet of red light had shot from the end of Bel­la­trix Lestrange's wand, but Mal­foy had de­flect­ed it; his spell caused hers to hit the shelf a foot to the left of Har­ry and sev­er­al of the glass orbs there shat­tered.

Two fig­ures, pearly-​white as ghosts, flu­id as smoke, un­furled them­selves from the frag­ments of bro­ken glass up­on the floor and each be­gan to speak; their voic­es vied with each oth­er, so that on­ly frag­ments of what they were say­ing could be heard over Mal­foy and Bel­la­trix's shouts.

'… at the sol­stice will come a new …' said the fig­ure of an old, beard­ed man.

'DO NOT AT­TACK! WE NEED THE PROPHE­CY!'

'He dared - he dares -' shrieked Bel­la­trix in­co­her­ent­ly, 'he stands there - filthy half-​blood -'

'WAIT UN­TIL WE'VE GOT THE PROPHE­CY!' bawled Mal­foy.

'… and none will come af­ter…' said the fig­ure of a young wom­an.

The two fig­ures that had burst from the shat­tered spheres had melt­ed in­to thin air. Noth­ing re­mained of them or their erst­while homes but frag­ments of glass up­on the floor. They had, how­ev­er, giv­en Har­ry an idea. The prob­lem was go­ing to be con­vey­ing it to the oth­ers.

'You haven't told me what's so spe­cial about this prophe­cy I'm sup­posed to be hand­ing over,' he said, play­ing for time. He moved his foot slow­ly side­ways, feel­ing around for some­one else's.

'Do not play games with us, Pot­ter,' said Mal­foy.

'I'm not play­ing games,' said Har­ry, half his mind on the con­ver­sa­tion, half on his wan­der­ing foot. And then he found some­one's toes and pressed down up­on them. A sharp in­take of breath be­hind him told him they were Hermiones.

'What?' she whis­pered.

'Dum­ble­dore nev­er told you the rea­son you bear that scar was hid­den in the bow­els of the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies?' Mal­foy sneered.

'I - what?' said Har­ry. And for a mo­ment he quite for­got his plan. 'What about my scar?'

'What?' whis­pered Hermione more ur­gent­ly be­hind him.

'Can this be?' said Mal­foy, sound­ing ma­li­cious­ly de­light­ed; some of the Death Eaters were laugh­ing again, and un­der cov­er of their laugh­ter, Har­ry hissed to Hermione, mov­ing his lips as lit­tle as pos­si­ble, 'Smash shelves -'

'Dum­ble­dore nev­er told you?' Mal­foy re­peat­ed. 'Well, this ex­plains why you didn't come ear­li­er, Pot­ter, the Dark Lord won­dered why -'

'- when I say now -'

'- you didn't come run­ning when he showed you the place where it was hid­den in your dreams. He thought nat­ural cu­rios­ity would make you want to hear the ex­act word­ing…'

'Did he?' said Har­ry. Be­hind him he felt rather than heard Hermione pass­ing his mes­sage to the oth­ers and he sought to keep talk­ing, to dis­tract the Death Eaters. 'So he want­ed me to come and get it, did he? Why?'

'Why?' Mal­foy sound­ed in­cred­ulous­ly de­light­ed. 'Be­cause the on­ly peo­ple who are per­mit­ted to re­trieve a prophe­cy from the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, Pot­ter, are those about whom it was made, as the Dark Lord dis­cov­ered when he at­tempt­ed to use oth­ers to steal it for him.'

'And why did he want to steal a prophe­cy about me?'

'About both of you, Pot­ter, about both of you… haven't you ev­er won­dered why the Dark Lord tried to kill you as a ba­by?'

Har­ry stared in­to the slit­ted eye-​holes through which Mal­foy's grey eyes were gleam­ing. Was this prophe­cy the rea­son Har­ry's par­ents had died, the rea­son he car­ried his light­ning-​bolt scar? Was the an­swer to all of this clutched in his hand?

'Some­one made a prophe­cy about Volde­mort and me?' he said qui­et­ly, gaz­ing at Lu­cius Mal­foy, his fin­gers tight­en­ing over the warm glass sphere in his hand. It was hard­ly larg­er than a Snitch and still grit­ty with dust. 'And he's made me come and get it for him? Why couldn't he come and get it him­self?'

'Get it him­self?' shrieked Bel­la­trix, over a cack­le of mad laugh­ter.

The Dark Lord, walk in­to the Min­istry of Mag­ic, when they are so sweet­ly ig­nor­ing his re­turn? The Dark Lord, re­veal him­self to the Au­rors, when at the mo­ment they are wast­ing their time on my dear cousin?'

'So, he's got you do­ing his dirty work for him, has he?' said Har­ry. 'Like he tried to get Stur­gis to steal it - and Bode?'

'Very good, Pot­ter, very good…' said Mal­foy slow­ly. 'But the Dark Lord knows you are not un­in­tell—'

'NOW!' yelled Har­ry.

Five dif­fer­ent voic­es be­hind him bel­lowed, 'RE­DUC­TO!' Five curs­es flew in five dif­fer­ent di­rec­tions and the shelves op­po­site them ex­plod­ed as they hit; the tow­er­ing struc­ture swayed as a hun­dred glass spheres burst apart, pearly-​white fig­ures un­furled in­to the air and float­ed there, their voic­es echo­ing from who knew what long-​dead past amid the tor­rent of crash­ing glass and splin­tered wood now rain­ing down up­on the floor -

'RUN!' Har­ry yelled, as the shelves swayed pre­car­ious­ly and more glass spheres be­gan to fall from above. He seized a hand­ful of Hermione's robes and dragged her for­wards, hold­ing one arm over his head as chunks of shelf and shards of glass thun­dered down up­on them. A Death Eater lunged for­wards through the cloud of dust and Har­ry el­bowed him hard in the masked face; they were all yelling, there were cries of pain, and thun­der­ous crash­es as the. shelves col­lapsed up­on them­selves, weird­ly echo­ing frag­ments of the Seers un­leashed from their spheres -

Har­ry found the way ahead clear and saw Ron, Gin­ny and Lu­na sprint past him, their arms over their heads; some­thing . heavy struck him on the side of the face but he mere­ly ducked his head and sprint­ed on­wards; a hand caught him by the shoul­der; he heard Hermione shout, 'Stu­pe­fy!' The hand re­leased him at once -

They were at the end of row nine­ty-​sev­en; Har­ry turned right and be­gan to sprint in earnest; he could hear foot­steps right be­hind him and Hermione's voice urg­ing Neville on; straight ahead, the door through which they had come was ajar; Har­ry could see the glit­ter­ing light of the bell jar; he pelt­ed through the door­way, the prophe­cy still clutched tight and safe in his hand, and wait­ed for the oth­ers to hur­tle over the thresh­old be­fore slam­ming the door be­hind them -

'Col­lo­por­tus!' gasped Hermione and the door sealed it­self with an odd squelch­ing noise.

'Where - where are the oth­ers?' gasped Har­ry.

He had thought Ron, Lu­na and Gin­ny were ahead of them, that they would be wait­ing in this room, but there was no­body there.

They must have gone the wrong way!' whis­pered Hermione, ter­ror in her face.

'Lis­ten!' whis­pered Neville.

Foot­steps and shouts echoed from be­hind the door they had just sealed; Har­ry put his ear close to the door to lis­ten and heard Lu­cius Mal­foy roar, 'Leave Nott, leave him, I say — his in­juries will be noth­ing to the Dark Lord com­pared to los­ing that prophe­cy. Jug­son, come back here, we need to or­gan­ise! We'll split in­to pairs and search, and don't for­get, be gen­tle with Pot­ter un­til we've got the prophe­cy, you can kill the oth­ers if nec­es­sary -Bel­la­trix, Rodol­phus, you take the left; Crabbe, Rabas­tan, go right -Jug­son, Dolo­hov, the door straight ahead - Mac­nair and Av­ery, through here - Rook­wood, over there - Mul­ciber, come with me!'

'What do we do?' Hermione asked Har­ry, trem­bling from head to foot.

'Well, we don't stand here wait­ing for them to find us, for a 't't start,' said Har­ry. 'Let's get away from this door.' | They ran as qui­et­ly as they could, past the shim­mer­ing bell jar j where the tiny egg was hatch­ing and un­hatch­ing, to­wards the ex­it I in­to the cir­cu­lar hall­way at the far end of the room. They were I al­most there when Har­ry heard some­thing large and heavy col­lide with the door Hermione had charmed shut.

'Stand aside!' said a rough voice. 'Ala­homo­ra!'

As the door flew open, Har­ry, Hermione and Neville dived un­der desks. They could see the bot­tom of the two Death Eaters' robes draw­ing near­er, their feet mov­ing rapid­ly.

They might've run straight through to the hall,' said the rough voice.

'Check un­der the desks,' said an­oth­er.

Har­ry saw the knees of the Death Eaters bend; pok­ing his wand out from un­der the desk, he shout­ed, 'STU­PE­FY!'

A jet of red light hit the near­est Death Eater; he fell back­wards in­to a grand­fa­ther clock and knocked it over; the sec­ond Death Eater, how­ev­er, had leapt aside to avoid Har­ry's spell and was point­ing his own wand at Hermione, who was crawl­ing out from un­der the desk to get a bet­ter aim.

'Ava­da -

Har­ry launched him­self across the floor and grabbed the Death Eater around the knees, caus­ing him to top­ple and his aim to go awry. Neville over­turned a desk in his anx­iety to help; and point­ing his wand wild­ly at the strug­gling pair, he cried:

'EX­PEL­LIAR­MUS!'

Both Har­ry's and the Death Eater's wands flew out of their hands and soared back to­wards the en­trance to the Hall of Prophe­cy; both scram­bled to their feet and charged af­ter them, the Death Eater in front, Har­ry hot on his heels, and Neville bring­ing up the rear, plain­ly hor­rorstruck by what he had done.

'Get out of the way, Har­ry!' yelled Neville, clear­ly de­ter­mined to re­pair the dam­age.

Har­ry flung him­self side­ways as Neville took aim again and shout­ed:

'STU­PE­FY!'

The jet of red light flew right over the Death Eater's shoul­der and hit a glass-​front­ed cab­inet on the wall full of var­ious­ly shaped hour-​glass­es; the cab­inet fell to the floor and burst apart, glass fly­ing ev­ery­where, sprang back up on to the wall, ful­ly mend­ed, then fell down again, and shat­tered -

The Death Eater had snatched up his wand, which lay on the floor be­side the glit­ter­ing bell jar. Har­ry ducked down be­hind an­oth­er desk as the man turned; his mask had slipped so that he couldn't see. He ripped it off with his free hand and shout­ed: 'STUP—'

'STU­PE­FY!' screamed Hermione, who had just caught up with them. The jet of red light hit the Death Eater in the mid­dle of his chest: he froze, his arm still raised, his wand fell to the floor with a clat­ter and he col­lapsed back­wards to­wards the bell jar. Har­ry ex­pect­ed to hear a dunk, for the man to hit sol­id glass and slide off the jar on to the floor, but in­stead, his head sank through the sur­face of the bell jar as though it were noth­ing but a soap bub­ble and he came to rest, sprawled on his back on the ta­ble, with his head ly­ing in­side the jar full of glit­ter­ing wind.

'Ac­cio wand!' cried Hermione. Har­ry's wand flew from a dark cor­ner in­to her hand and she threw it to him.

Thanks,' he said. 'Right, let's get out of —'

'Look out!' said Neville, hor­ri­fied. He was star­ing at the Death Eater's head in the bell jar.

All three of them raised their wands again, but none of them struck: they were all gaz­ing, open-​mouthed, ap­palled, at what was hap­pen­ing to the man's head.

It was shrink­ing very fast, grow­ing balder and balder, the black hair and stub­ble re­tract­ing in­to his skull; his cheeks be­com­ing smooth, his skull round and cov­ered with a peach­like fuzz…

A ba­by's head now sat grotesque­ly on top of the thick, mus­cled neck of the Death Eater as he strug­gled to get up again; but even as they watched, their mouths open, the head be­gan to swell to its pre­vi­ous pro­por­tions again; thick black hair was sprout­ing from the pate and chin…

'It's Time,' said Hermione in an awestruck voice. Time…"

The Death Eater shook his ug­ly head again, try­ing to clear it, but be­fore he could pull him­self to­geth­er it be­gan to shrink back to baby­hood once more…

There was a shout from a room near­by, then a crash and a scream.

'RON?' Har­ry yelled, turn­ing quick­ly from the mon­strous trans­for­ma­tion tak­ing place be­fore them. 'GIN­NY? LU­NA?'

'Har­ry!' Hermione screamed.

The Death Eater had pulled his head out of the bell jar. His ap­pear­ance was ut­ter­ly bizarre, his tiny ba­by's head bawl­ing loud­ly while his thick arms flailed dan­ger­ous­ly in all di­rec­tions, nar­row­ly miss­ing Har­ry, who had ducked. Har­ry raised his wand but to his amaze­ment Hermione seized his arm.

'You can't hurt a ba­by!'

There was no time to ar­gue the point; Har­ry could hear more

I

foot­steps grow­ing loud­er from the Hall of Prophe­cy and knew, too late, that he ought not to have shout­ed and giv­en away their po­si­tion.

'Come on!' he said, and leav­ing the ug­ly ba­by-​head­ed Death Eater stag­ger­ing be­hind them they took off for the door that stood open at the oth­er end of the room, lead­ing back in­to the black hall­way.

They had run halfway to­wards it when Har­ry saw through the open door two more Death Eaters run­ning across the black room to­wards them; veer­ing left, he burst in­stead in­to a small, dark, clut­tered of­fice and slammed the door be­hind them.

'Col­lo—' be­gan Hermione, but be­fore she could com­plete the spell the door had burst open and the two Death Eaters had come hurtling in­side.

With a cry of tri­umph, both yelled:

'IM­PED­IMEN­TA!'

Har­ry, Hermione and Neville were all knocked back­wards off their feet; Neville was thrown over the desk and dis­ap­peared from view; Hermione smashed in­to a book­case and was prompt­ly del­uged in a cas­cade of heavy books; the back of Har­ry's head slammed in­to the stone wall be­hind him, tiny lights burst in front of his eyes and for a mo­ment he was too dizzy and be­wil­dered to re­act.

'WE'VE GOT HIM!' yelled the Death Eater near­est Har­ry. 'IN AN OF­FICE OFF—'

'Si­len­cio!' cried Hermione and the man's voice was ex­tin­guished. He con­tin­ued to mouth through the hole in his mask, but no sound came out. He was thrust aside by his fel­low Death Eater.

'Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!' shout­ed Har­ry, as the sec­ond Death Eater raised his wand. His arms and legs snapped to­geth­er and he fell for­wards, face down on to the rug at Har­ry's feet, stiff as a board and un­able to move.

'Well done, Ha—'

But the Death Eater Hermione had just struck dumb made a sud­den slash­ing move­ment with his wand; a streak of what looked like pur­ple flame passed right across Hermione's chest. She gave a tiny 'Oh!' as though of sur­prise and crum­pled on to the floor, where she lay mo­tion­less.

'HERMIONE!'

Har­ry fell to his knees be­side her as Neville crawled rapid­ly to­wards her from un­der the desk, his wand held up in front of him. The Death Eater kicked out hard at Neville's head as he emerged - his foot broke Neville's wand in two and con­nect­ed with his face. Neville gave a howl of pain and re­coiled, clutch­ing his mouth and nose. Har­ry twist­ed around, his own wand held high, and saw that the Death Eater had ripped off his mask and was point­ing his wand di­rect­ly at Har­ry, who recog­nised the long, pale, twist­ed face from the Dai­ly Prophet: An­tonin Dolo­hov, the wiz­ard who had mur­dered the Prewetts.

Dolo­hov grinned. With his free hand, he point­ed from the prophe­cy still clutched in Har­rys hand, to him­self, then at Hermione. Though he could no longer speak, his mean­ing could not have been clear­er. Give me the prophe­cy, or you get the same as her…

'Like you won't kill us all any­way, the mo­ment I hand it over!' said Har­ry.

A whine of pan­ic in­side his head was pre­vent­ing him think­ing prop­er­ly: he had one hand on Hermione's shoul­der, which was still warm, yet did not dare look at her prop­er­ly. Don't let her be dead, don't let her be dead, it's my fault if she's dead…

'Whad­de­ver you do, Har­ry,' said Neville fierce­ly from un­der the desk, low­er­ing his hands to show a clear­ly bro­ken nose and blood pour­ing down his mouth and chin, 'don'd gib it to him!'

Then there was a crash out­side the door and Dolo­hov looked over his shoul­der - the ba­by-​head­ed Death Eater had ap­peared in the door­way, his head bawl­ing, his great fists still flail­ing un­con­trol­lably at ev­ery­thing around him. Har­ry seized his chance:

'PET­RI­FI­CUS TO­TALUS!'

The spell hit Dolo­hov be­fore he could block it and he top­pled for­wards across his com­rade, both of them rigid as boards and un­able to move an inch.

'Hermione,' Har­ry said at once, shak­ing her as the ba­by-​head­ed Death Eater blun­dered out of sight again. 'Hermione, wake up…"

'Whad­did he do to her?' said Neville, crawl­ing out from un­der the desk to kneel at her oth­er side, blood stream­ing from his rapid­ly swelling nose.

'I dun­no…"

Neville groped for Hermione's wrist.

'Dat's a pulse, Har­ry, I'b sure id is.'

Such a pow­er­ful wave of re­lief swept through Har­ry that for a mo­ment he felt light-​head­ed.

'She's alive?'

'Yeah, I dink so.'

There was a pause in which Har­ry lis­tened hard for the sound of more foot­steps, but all he could hear were the whim­pers and blun­der­ings of the ba­by-​head­ed Death Eater in the next room.

'Neville, we're not far from the ex­it,' Har­ry whis­pered, 'we're right next to that cir­cu­lar room… if we can just get you across it and find the right door be­fore any more Death Eaters come, I'll bet you can get Hermione up the cor­ri­dor and in­to the lift… then you could find some­one… raise the alarm…'

'And whad are you go­ing do do?' said Neville, mop­ping his bleed­ing nose with his sleeve and frown­ing at Har­ry.

'I've got to find the oth­ers,' said Har­ry.

'Well, I'b go­ing do find dem wid you,' said Neville firm­ly.

'But Hermione —'

'We'll dake her wid us,' said Neville firm­ly. 'I'll car­ry her — you're bed­der at fighd­ing dem dan I ab -'

He stood up and seized one of Hermione's arms, glar­ing at Har­ry, who hes­itat­ed, then grabbed the oth­er and helped hoist Hermione's limp form over Neville's shoul­ders.

'Wait,' said Har­ry, snatch­ing up Hermione's wand from the floor and shov­ing it in­to Neville's hand, 'you'd bet­ter take this.'

Neville kicked aside the bro­ken frag­ments of his own wand as they walked slow­ly to­wards the door.

'My gran's go­ing do kill be,' said Neville thick­ly, blood spat­ter­ing from his nose as he spoke, 'dat was by dad's old wand.'

Har­ry stuck his head out of the door and looked around cau­tious­ly. The ba­by-​head­ed Death Eater was scream­ing and bang­ing in­to things, top­pling grand­fa­ther clocks and over­turn­ing desks, bawl­ing and con­fused, while the glass-​front­ed cab­inet that Har­ry now sus­pect­ed had con­tained Time-​Turn­ers con­tin­ued to fall, shat­ter and re­pair it­self on the wall be­hind them.

'He's nev­er go­ing to no­tice us,' he whis­pered. 'C'mon… keep close be­hind me…"

They crept out of the of­fice and back to­wards the door in­to the black hall­way, which now seemed com­plete­ly de­sert­ed. They walked a few steps for­wards, Neville tot­ter­ing slight­ly due to Hermione's weight; the door of the Time Room swung shut be­hind them and the walls be­gan to ro­tate once more. The re­cent blow on the back of Har­rys head seemed to have un­stead­ied him; he nar­rowed his eyes, sway­ing slight­ly, un­til the walls stopped mov­ing again. With a sink­ing heart, Har­ry saw that Hermione's fiery cross­es had fad­ed from the doors.

'So which way d'you reck—?'

But be­fore they could make a de­ci­sion as to which way to try, a door to their right sprang open and three peo­ple fell out of it.

'Ron!' croaked Har­ry, dash­ing to­wards them. 'Gin­ny - are you all -?'

'Har­ry,' said Ron, gig­gling weak­ly, lurch­ing for­wards, seiz­ing the front of Har­ry's robes and gaz­ing at him with un­fo­cused eyes, 'there you are… ha ha ha… you look fun­ny, Har­ry… you're all messed up…'

Ron's face was very white and some­thing dark was trick­ling from the cor­ner of his mouth. Next mo­ment his knees had giv­en way, but he still clutched the front of Har­ry's robes, so that Har­ry was pulled in­to a kind of bow.

'Gin­ny?' Har­ry said fear­ful­ly. 'What hap­pened?'

But Gin­ny shook her head and slid down the wall in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion, pant­ing and hold­ing her an­kle.

'I think her an­kle's bro­ken, I heard some­thing crack,' whis­pered Lu­na, who was bend­ing over her and who alone seemed to be un­hurt. 'Four of them chased us in­to a dark room full of plan­ets; it was a very odd place, some of the time we were just float­ing in the dark -'

'Har­ry, we saw Uranus up close!' said Ron, still gig­gling fee­bly. 'Get it, Har­ry? We saw Uranus - ha ha ha -'

A bub­ble of blood grew at the cor­ner of Ron's mouth and burst.

'- any­way, one of them grabbed Gin­ny's foot, I used the Re­duc­tor Curse and blew up Plu­to in his face, but…'

Lu­na ges­tured hope­less­ly at Gin­ny, who was breath­ing in a very shal­low way, her eyes still closed.

'And what about Ron?' said Har­ry fear­ful­ly, as Ron con­tin­ued to gig­gle, still hang­ing off the front of Har­ry's robes.

'I don't know what they hit him with,' said Lu­na sad­ly, 'but he's gone a bit fun­ny, I could hard­ly get him along at all.'

'Har­ry,' said Ron, pulling Har­ry's ear down to his mouth and still gig­gling weak­ly, 'you know who this girl is, Har­ry? She's Loony… Loony Love­good… ha ha ha

'We've got to get out of here,' said Har­ry firm­ly. 'Lu­na, can you help Gin­ny?'

'Yes,' said Lu­na, stick­ing her wand be­hind her ear for safe­keep­ing, then putting an arm around Gin­nys waist and pulling her up.

'It's on­ly my an­kle, I can do it my­self!' said Gin­ny im­pa­tient­ly, but next mo­ment she had col­lapsed side­ways and grabbed Lu­na for sup­port. Har­ry pulled Ron's arm over his shoul­der just as, so many months ago, he had pulled Dud­ley's. He looked around: they had a one in twelve chance of get­ting the ex­it right first time -

He heaved Ron to­wards a door; they were with­in a few feet of it when an­oth­er door across the hall burst open and three Death Eaters sped in, led by Bel­la­trix Lestrange.

'There they are!' she shrieked.

Stun­ning Spells shot across the room: Har­ry smashed his way through the door ahead, flung Ron un­cer­emo­ni­ous­ly from him and ducked back to help Neville in with Hermione: they were all over the thresh­old just in time to slam the door against Bel­la­trix.

'Col­lo­por­tus!' shout­ed Har­ry, and he heard three bod­ies slam in­to the door on the oth­er side.

'It doesn't mat­ter!' said a man's voice. There are oth­er ways in - WE'VE GOT THEM, THEY'RE HERE!'

Har­ry span around; they were back in the Brain Room and, sure enough, there were doors all around the walls. He could hear foot­steps in the hall be­hind them as more Death Eaters came run­ning to join the first.

'Lu­na - Neville - help me!'

The three of them tore around the room, seal­ing the doors as they went; Har­ry crashed in­to a ta­ble and rolled over the top of it in his haste to reach the next door:

'Col­lo­por­tus!'

There were foot­steps run­ning along be­hind the doors, ev­ery now and then an­oth­er heavy body would launch it­self against one, so it creaked and shud­dered; Lu­na and Neville were be­witch­ing the doors along the op­po­site wall - then, as Har­ry reached the very top of the room, he heard Lu­na cry:

'Col­lo— aaaaaaaaargh…'

He turned in time to see her fly­ing through the air; five Death Eaters were surg­ing in­to the room through the door she had not reached in time; Lu­na hit a desk, slid over its sur­face and on to the floor on the oth­er side where she lay sprawled, as still as Hermione.

'Get Pot­ter!' shrieked Bel­la­trix, and she ran at him; he dodged her and sprint­ed back up the room; he was safe as long as they thought they might hit the prophe­cy -

'Hey!' said Ron, who had stag­gered to his feet and was now tot­ter­ing drunk­en­ly to­wards Har­ry, gig­gling. 'Hey Har­ry, there are brains in here, ha ha ha, isn't that weird, Har­ry?'

'Ron, get out of the way, get down -'

But Ron had al­ready point­ed his wand at the tank.

'Hon­est, Har­ry, they're brains - look - Ac­cio brain!'

The scene seemed mo­men­tar­ily frozen. Har­ry, Gin­ny and Neville and each of the Death Eaters turned in spite of them­selves to watch the top of the tank as a brain burst from the green liq­uid like a leap­ing fish: for a mo­ment it seemed sus­pend­ed in midair, then it soared to­wards Ron, spin­ning as it came, and what looked like rib­bons of mov­ing im­ages flew from it, un­rav­el­ling like rolls of film-

'Ha ha ha, Har­ry, look at it -' said Ron, watch­ing it dis­gorge its gaudy in­nards, 'Har­ry come and touch it; bet it's weird -'

'RON, NO!'

Har­ry did not know what would hap­pen if Ron touched the ten­ta­cles of thought now fly­ing be­hind the brain, but he was sure it would not be any­thing good. He dart­ed for­wards but Ron had al­ready caught the brain in his out­stretched hands.

The mo­ment they made con­tact with his skin, the ten­ta­cles be­gan wrap­ping them­selves around Ron's arms like ropes.

'Har­ry, look what's hap­pen— No - no - I don't like it - no, stop - stop -'

But the thin rib­bons were spin­ning around Ron's chest now; he tugged and tore at them as the brain was pulled tight against him like an oc­to­pus's body.

'Diffin­do!' yelled Har­ry, try­ing to sev­er the feel­ers wrap­ping them­selves tight­ly around Ron be­fore his eyes, but they would not break. Ron fell over, still thrash­ing against his bonds.

'Har­ry, it'll suf­fo­cate him!' screamed Gin­ny, im­mo­bilised by her bro­ken an­kle on the floor - then a jet of red light flew from one of the Death Eater's wands and hit her square­ly in the face. She keeled over side­ways and lay there un­con­scious.

'STUBE­FY!' shout­ed Neville, wheel­ing around and wav­ing Hermione's wand at the on­com­ing Death Eaters, 'STUBE­FY, STUBE­FY!'

But noth­ing hap­pened.

One of the Death Eaters shot their own Stun­ning Spell at Neville; it missed him by inch­es. Har­ry and Neville were now the on­ly two left fight­ing the five Death Eaters, two of whom sent off streams of sil­ver light like ar­rows which missed but left craters in the wall be­hind them. Har­ry ran for it as Bel­la­trix Lestrange raced right at him: hold­ing the prophe­cy high above his head, he sprint­ed back up the room; all he could think of do­ing was to draw the Death Eaters away from the oth­ers.

It seemed to have worked; they streaked af­ter him, knock­ing chairs and ta­bles fly­ing but not dar­ing to be­witch him in case they hurt the prophe­cy, and he dashed through the on­ly door still open, the one through which the Death Eaters them­selves had come; in­ward­ly pray­ing that Neville would stay with Ron and find some way of re­leas­ing him. He ran a few feet in­to the new room and felt the floor van­ish -

He was falling down steep stone step af­ter steep stone step, bounc­ing on ev­ery tier un­til at last, with a crash that knocked all the breath out of his body, he land­ed flat on his back in the sunken pit where the stone arch­way stood on its dais. The whole room was ring­ing with the Death Eaters' laugh­ter: he looked up and saw the five who had been in the Brain Room de­scend­ing to­wards him, while as many more emerged through oth­er door­ways and be­gan leap­ing from bench to bench to­wards him. Har­ry got to his feet though his legs were trem­bling so bad­ly they bare­ly sup­port­ed him: the prophe­cy was still mirac­ulous­ly un­bro­ken in his left hand, his wand clutched tight­ly in his right. He backed away, look­ing around, try­ing to keep all the Death Eaters with­in his sight. The back of his legs hit some­thing sol­id: he had reached the dais where the arch­way stood. He climbed back­wards on­to it.

The Death Eaters all halt­ed, gaz­ing at him. Some were pant­ing as hard as he was. One was bleed­ing bad­ly; Dolo­hov, freed of the Body-​Bind Curse, was leer­ing, his wand point­ing straight at Har­rys face.

'Pot­ter, your race is run,' drawled Lu­cius Mal­foy, pulling off his mask, 'now hand me the prophe­cy like a good boy.'

'Let - let the oth­ers go, and I'll give it to you!' said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly.

A few of the Death Eaters laughed.

'You are not in a po­si­tion to bar­gain, Pot­ter,' said Lu­cius Mal­foy, his pale face flushed with plea­sure. 'You see, there are ten of us and on­ly one of you… or hasn't Dum­ble­dore ev­er taught you how to count?'

'He's dot alone!' shout­ed a voice from above them. 'He's still god be!'

Har­ry's heart sank: Neville was scram­bling down the stone bench­es to­wards them, Hermiones wand held fast in his trem­bling hand.

'Neville - no - go back to Ron -'

'STUBE­FY!' Neville shout­ed again, point­ing his wand at each Death Eater in turn. 'STUBE­FY! STl/BE—'

One of the largest Death Eaters seized Neville from be­hind, pin­ion­ing his arms to his sides. He strug­gled and kicked; sev­er­al of the Death Eaters laughed.

'It's Long­bot­tom, isn't it?' sneered Lu­cius Mal­foy. 'Well, your grand­moth­er is used to los­ing fam­ily mem­bers to our cause… your death will not come as a great shock.'

'Long­bot­tom?' re­peat­ed Bel­la­trix, and a tru­ly evil smile lit her gaunt face. 'Why, I have had the plea­sure of meet­ing your par­ents, boy,'

'I DOE YOU HAB!' roared Neville, and he fought so hard against his cap­tors en­cir­cling grip that the Death Eater shout­ed, 'Some­one Stun him!'

'No, no, no,' said Bel­la­trix. She looked trans­port­ed, alive with ex­cite­ment as she glanced at Har­ry, then back at Neville. 'No, let's see how long Long­bot­tom lasts be­fore he cracks like his par­ents… un­less Pot­ter wants to give us the prophe­cy.'

'DON'D GIB ID DO DEM!' roared Neville, who seemed be­side him­self, kick­ing and writhing as Bel­la­trix drew near­er to him and his cap­tor, her wand raised. 'DON'D GIB ID DO DEM, HAR­RY!'

Bel­la­trix raised her wand. 'Crude/'

Neville screamed, his legs drawn up to his chest so that the Death Eater hold­ing him was mo­men­tar­ily hold­ing him off the ground. The Death Eater dropped him and he fell to the floor, twitch­ing and scream­ing in agony.

'That was just a taster!' said Bel­la­trix, rais­ing her wand so that Neville's screams stopped and he lay sob­bing at her feet. She turned and gazed up at Har­ry. 'Now, Pot­ter, ei­ther give us the prophe­cy, or watch your lit­tle friend die the hard way!'

Har­ry did not have to think; there was no choice. The prophe­cy was hot with the heat of his clutch­ing hand as he held it out. Mal­foy jumped for­wards to take it.

Then, high above them, two more doors burst open and five more peo­ple sprint­ed in­to the room: Sir­ius, Lupin, Moody, Tonks and Kings­ley.

Mal­foy turned, and raised his wand, but Tonks had al­ready sent a Stun­ning Spell right at him. Har­ry did not wait to see whether it had made con­tact, but dived off the dais out of the way. The Death Eaters were com­plete­ly dis­tract­ed by the ap­pear­ance of the mem­bers of the Or­der, who were now rain­ing spells down up­on them as they jumped from step to step to­wards the sunken floor. Through the dart­ing bod­ies, the flash­es of light, Har­ry could see Neville crawl­ing along. He dodged an­oth­er jet of red light and flung him­self flat on the ground to reach Neville.

'Are you OK?' he yelled, as an­oth­er spell soared inch­es over their heads.

'Yes,' said Neville, try­ing to pull him­self up.

'And Ron?'

'I dink he's all righd - he was still fighd­ing de brain when I lefd -'

The stone floor be­tween them ex­plod­ed as a spell hit it, leav­ing a crater right where Nevilles hand had been on­ly sec­onds be­fore; both scram­bled away from the spot, then a thick arm came out of nowhere, seized Har­ry around the neck and pulled him up­right, so that his toes were bare­ly touch­ing the floor.

'Give it to me,' growled a voice in his ear, 'give me the prophe­cy -'

The man was press­ing so tight­ly on Har­ry's wind­pipe that he could not breathe. Through wa­ter­ing eyes he saw Sir­ius du­elling with a Death Eater some ten feet away; Kings­ley was fight­ing two at once; Tonks, still halfway up the tiered seats, was fir­ing spells down at Bel­la­trix - no­body seemed to re­alise that Har­ry was dy­ing. He turned his wand back­wards to­wards the man's side, but had no breath to ut­ter an in­can­ta­tion, and the man's free hand was grop­ing to­wards the hand in which Har­ry was grasp­ing the prophe­cy -

'AARGH!'

Neville had come lung­ing out of nowhere; un­able to ar­tic­ulate a spell, he had jabbed Hermione's wand hard in­to the eye­hole of the Death Eaters mask. The man re­lin­quished Har­ry at once with a howl of pain. Har­ry whirled around to face him and gasped:

'STU­PE­FY!'

The Death Eater keeled over back­wards and his mask slipped off: it was Mac­nair, Buck­beak's would-​be killer, one of his eyes now swollen and blood­shot.

Thanks!' Har­ry said to Neville, pulling him aside as Sir­ius and his Death Eater lurched past, du­elling so fierce­ly that their wands were blurs; then Har­ry's foot made con­tact with some­thing round and hard and he slipped. For a mo­ment he thought he had dropped the prophe­cy, but then he saw Moody's mag­ical eye spin­ning away across the floor.

Its own­er was ly­ing on his side, bleed­ing from the head, and his at­tack­er was now bear­ing down up­on Har­ry and Neville: Dolo­hov, his long pale face twist­ed with glee.

'Taran­talle­gra!' he shout­ed, his wand point­ing at Neville, whose legs went im­me­di­ate­ly in­to a kind of fren­zied tap-​dance, un­bal­anc­ing him and caus­ing him to fall to the floor again. 'Now, Pot­ter -'

He made the same slash­ing move­ment with his wand that he had used on Hermione just as Har­ry yelled, 'Pro­tege/'

Har­ry felt some­thing streak across his face like a blunt knife; the force of it knocked him side­ways and he fell over Neville's jerk­ing legs, but the Shield Charm had stopped the worst of the spell.

Dolo­hov raised his wand again. 'Ac­cio proph—'

Sir­ius had hur­tled out of nowhere, rammed Dolo­hov with his shoul­der and sent him fly­ing out of the way. The prophe­cy had again flown to the tips of Har­ry's fin­gers but he had man­aged to cling on to it. Now Sir­ius and Dolo­hov were du­elling, their wands flash­ing like swords, sparks fly­ing from their wand-​tips -

Dolo­hov drew back his wand to make the same slash­ing move­ment he had used on Har­ry and Hermione. Spring­ing up, Har­ry yelled, 'Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!' Once again, Dolo­hov's arms and legs snapped to­geth­er and he keeled over back­wards, land­ing with a crash on his back.

'Nice one!' shout­ed Sir­ius, forc­ing Har­ry's head down as a pair of Stun­ning Spells flew to­wards them. 'Now I want you to get out of-'

They both ducked again; a jet of green light had nar­row­ly missed Sir­ius. Across the room Har­ry saw Tonks fall from halfway up the stone steps, her limp form top­pling from stone seat to stone seat and Bel­la­trix, tri­umphant, run­ning back to­wards the fray.

'Har­ry, take the prophe­cy, grab Neville and run!' Sir­ius yelled, dash­ing to meet Bel­la­trix. Har­ry did not see what hap­pened next: Kings­ley swayed across his field of vi­sion, bat­tling with the pock­marked and no longer masked Rook­wood; an­oth­er jet of green light flew over Har­ry's head as he launched him­self to­wards Neville -

'Can you stand?' he bel­lowed in Neville's ear, as Neville's legs jerked and twitched un­con­trol­lably. 'Put your arm round my neck -'

Neville did so - Har­ry heaved — Neville's legs were still fly­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion, they would not sup­port him, and then, out of nowhere, a man lunged at them: both fell back­wards, Neville's legs wav­ing wild­ly like an over­turned bee­tle's, Har­ry with his left arm held up in the air to try to save the small glass ball from be­ing smashed.

The prophe­cy, give me the prophe­cy, Pot­ter!' snarled Lu­cius Mal­foy's voice in his ear, and Har­ry felt the tip of Mal­foy's wand press­ing hard be­tween his ribs.

'No - get - off - me… Neville - catch it!'

Har­ry flung the prophe­cy across the floor, Neville span him­self around on his back and scooped the ball to his chest. Mal­foy point­ed the wand in­stead at Neville, but Har­ry jabbed his own wand back over his shoul­der and yelled, 'Im­ped­imen­ta!'

Mal­foy was blast­ed off his back. As Har­ry scram­bled up again he looked around and saw Mal­foy smash in­to the dais on which Sir­ius and Bel­la­trix were now du­elling. Mal­foy aimed his wand at Har­ry and Neville again, but be­fore he could draw breath to strike, Lupin had jumped be­tween them.

'Har­ry, round up the oth­ers and GO!'

Har­ry seized Neville by the shoul­der of his robes and lift­ed him bod­ily on to the first tier of stone steps; Neville's legs twitched and jerked and would not sup­port his weight; Har­ry heaved again with all the strength he pos­sessed and they climbed an­oth­er step -

A spell hit the stone bench at Har­rys heel; it crum­bled away and he fell back to the step be­low. Neville sank to the ground, his legs still jerk­ing and thrash­ing, and he thrust the prophe­cy in­to his pock­et.

'Come on!' said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, haul­ing at Nevilles robes. 'Just try and push with your legs -'

He gave an­oth­er stu­pen­dous heave and Nevilles robes tore all along the left seam - the small spun-​glass ball dropped from his pock­et and, be­fore ei­ther of them could catch it, one of Neville's floun­der­ing feet kicked it: it flew some ten feet to their right and smashed on the step be­neath them. As both of them stared at the place where it had bro­ken, ap­palled at what had hap­pened, a pearly-​white fig­ure with huge­ly mag­ni­fied eyes rose in­to the air, un­no­ticed by any but them..Har­ry could see its mouth mov­ing, but in all the crash­es and screams and yells sur­round­ing them, not one word of the prophe­cy could he hear. The fig­ure stopped speak­ing and dis­solved in­to noth­ing­ness.

'Har­ry, Fb sor­ry!' cried Neville, his face an­guished as his legs con­tin­ued to floun­der. Tb so sor­ry, Har­ry, I didn'd bean do -'

'It doesn't mat­ter!' Har­ry shout­ed. 'Just try and stand, let's get out of -'

'Dub­ble­dore!' said Neville, his sweaty face sud­den­ly trans­port­ed, star­ing over Har­ry's shoul­der.

'What?'

'DUB­BLE­DORE!'

Har­ry turned to look where Neville was star­ing. Di­rect­ly above them, framed in the door­way from the Brain Room, stood Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, his wand aloft, his face white and fu­ri­ous. Har­ry felt a kind of elec­tric charge surge through ev­ery par­ti­cle of his body - they were saved.

Dum­ble­dore sped down the steps past Neville and Har­ry, who had no more thoughts of leav­ing. Dum­ble­dore was al­ready at the foot of the steps when the Death Eaters near­est re­alised he was there and yelled to the oth­ers. One of the Death Eaters ran for it, scrab­bling like a mon­key up the stone steps op­po­site. Dum­ble­dore's spell pulled him back as eas­ily and ef­fort­less­ly as though he had hooked him with an in­vis­ible line -

On­ly one pair was still bat­tling, ap­par­ent­ly un­aware of the new ar­rival. Har­ry saw Sir­ius duck Bel­la­trix's jet of red light: he was laugh­ing at her.

'Come on, you can do bet­ter than that!' he yelled, his voice echo­ing around the cav­ernous room.

The sec­ond jet of light hit him square­ly on the chest.

The laugh­ter had not quite died from his face, but his eyes widened in shock.

Har­ry re­leased Neville, though he was un­aware of do­ing so. He was jump­ing down the steps again, pulling out his wand, as Dum­ble­dore, too, turned to­wards the dais.

It seemed to take Sir­ius an age to fall: his body curved in a grace­ful arc as he sank back­wards through the ragged veil hang­ing from the arch.

Har­ry saw the look of min­gled fear and sur­prise on his god­fa­ther's wast­ed, once-​hand­some face as he fell through the an­cient door­way and dis­ap­peared be­hind the veil, which flut­tered for a mo­ment as though in a high wind, then fell back in­to place.

Har­ry heard Bel­la­trix Lestrange's tri­umphant scream, but knew it meant noth­ing - Sir­ius had on­ly just fall­en through the arch­way, he would reap­pear from the oth­er side any sec­ond…

But Sir­ius did not reap­pear.

'SIR­IUS!' Har­ry yelled. 'SIR­IUS!'

He had reached the floor, his breath com­ing in sear­ing gasps. Sir­ius must be just be­hind the cur­tain, he, Har­ry, would pull him back out…

But as he reached the ground and sprint­ed to­wards the dais, Lupin grabbed Har­ry around the chest, hold­ing him back.

There's noth­ing you can do, Har­ry -'

'Get him, save him, he's on­ly just gone through!'

'- it's too late, Har­ry.'

'We can still reach him -' Har­ry strug­gled hard and vi­cious­ly, but Lupin would not let go…

There's noth­ing you can do, Har­ry… noth­ing… he's gone.'





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 36 - The Only One He Ever Feared


'He hasn't gone!' Har­ry yelled.

He did not be­lieve it; he would not be­lieve it; still he fought Lupin with ev­ery bit of strength he had. Lupin did not un­der­stand; peo­ple hid be­hind that cur­tain; Har­ry had heard them whis­per­ing the first time he had en­tered the room. Sir­ius was hid­ing, sim­ply lurk­ing out of sight

'SIR­IUS!' he bel­lowed. 'SIR­IUS!'

`He can't come back, Har­ry,' said Lupin, his voice break­ing as he strug­gled to con­tain Har­ry. `He can't come back, be­cause he's d-'

`HE - IS - NOT - DEAD!' roared Har­ry. 'SIR­IUS!'

There was move­ment go­ing on around them, point­less bustling, the flash­es of more spells. To Har­ry it was mean­ing­less noise, the de­flect­ed curs­es fly­ing past them did not mat­ter, noth­ing mat­tered ex­cept that Lupin should stop pre­tend­ing that Sir­ius - who was stand­ing feet from them be­hind that old cur­tain - was not go­ing to emerge at any mo­ment, shak­ing back his dark hair and ea­ger to re-​en­ter the bat­tle.

Lupin dragged Har­ry away from the dais. Har­ry, still star­ing at the arch­way, was an­gry at Sir­ius now for keep­ing him wait­ing

But some part of him re­alised, even as he fought to break free from Lupin, that Sir­ius had nev­er kept him wait­ing be­fore… Sir­ius had risked ev­ery­thing, al­ways, to see Har­ry, to help him… if Sir­ius was not reap­pear­ing out of that arch­way when Har­ry was yelling for him as though his life de­pend­ed on it, the on­ly pos­si­ble ex­pla­na­tion was that he could not come back… that he re­al­ly was

Dum­ble­dore had most of the re­main­ing Death Eaters grouped in the mid­dle of the room, seem­ing­ly im­mo­bilised by in­vis­ible ropes; Mad-​Eye Moody had crawled across the room to where Tonks lay, and was at­tempt­ing to re­vive her; be­hind the dais there were still hash­es of light, grunts and cries - Kings­ley had run for­ward to con­tin­ue Sir­ius's du­el with Bel­la­trix.

`Har­ry?'

Neville had slid down the stone bench­es one by one to the place where Har­ry stood. Har­ry was no longer strug­gling against Lupin, who main­tained a pre­cau­tion­ary grip on his arm nev­er­the­less.

`Har­ry… I'b re­al­ly sor­ry…' said Neville. His legs were still danc­ing un­con­trol­lably. `Was dad man - was Sir­ius Black a - a friend of yours?'

Har­ry nod­ded.

`Here,' said Lupin qui­et­ly, and point­ing his wand at Neville's legs he said, `Fi­nite.' The spell was lift­ed: Neville's legs fell back to the floor and re­mained still. Lupin's face was pale. `Let's - let's find the oth­ers. Where are they all, Neville?'

Lupin turned away from the arch­way as he spoke. It sound­ed as though ev­ery word was caus­ing him pain.

`Dey're all back dere,' said Neville. `A brain ad­dacked Ron bud I dink he's all righd - and Her­bione's un­con­scious, bud we could feel a bulse =

There was a loud bang and a yell from be­hind the dais. Har­ry saw Kings­ley hit the ground yelling in pain: Bel­la­trix Lestrange turned tail and ran as Dum­ble­dore whipped around. He aimed a spell at her but she de­flect­ed it; she was halfway up the steps now

`Har­ry - no!' cried Lupin, but Har­ry had al­ready ripped his arm from Lupin's slack­ened grip.

`SHE KILLED SIR­IUS!' bel­lowed Har­ry. `SHE KILLED HIM I'LL KILL HER!'

And he was off, scram­bling up the stone bench­es; peo­ple were shout­ing be­hind him but he did not care. The hem of Bel­la­trix's robes whipped out of sight ahead and they were back in the room where the brains were swim­ming…

She aimed a curse over her shoul­der. The tank rose in­to the air

and tipped. Har­ry was del­uged in the foul-​smelling po­tion with­in: the brains slipped and slid over him and be­gan spin­ning their long coloured ten­ta­cles, but he shout­ed, `Wingardi­um Leviosa!' and they flew off him up in­to the air. Slip­ping and slid­ing, he ran on to­wards the door; he leapt over Lu­na, who was groan­ing on the floor, past Gin­ny, who said, `Har­ry - what -?', past Ron, who gig­gled fee­bly, and Hermione, who was still un­con­scious. He wrenched open the door in­to the cir­cu­lar black hall and saw Bel­la­trix dis­ap­pear­ing through a door on the oth­er side of the room; be­yond her was the cor­ri­dor lead­ing back to the lifts.

He ran, but she had slammed the door be­hind her and the walls were al­ready ro­tat­ing. Once more, he was sur­round­ed by streaks of blue light from the whirling can­de­labra.

`Where's the ex­it?' he shout­ed des­per­ate­ly, as the wall rum­bled to a halt again. `Where's the way out?'

The room seemed to have been wait­ing for him to ask. The door right be­hind him flew open and the cor­ri­dor to­wards the lifts stretched ahead of him, torch-​lit and emp­ty. He ran …

He could hear a lift clat­ter­ing ahead; he sprint­ed up the pas­sage­way, swung around the cor­ner and slammed his fist on to the but­ton to call a sec­ond lift. It jan­gled and banged low­er and low­er; the grilles slid open and Har­ry dashed in­side, now ham­mer­ing the but­ton marked `Atri­um'. The doors slid shut and he was ris­ing …

He forced his way out of the lift be­fore the grilles were ful­ly open and looked around. Bel­la­trix was al­most at the tele­phone lift at the oth­er end of the hall, but she looked back as he sprint­ed to­wards her and aimed an­oth­er spell at him. He dodged be­hind the Foun­tain of Mag­ical Brethren: the spell zoomed past him and hit the wrought­gold gates at the oth­er end of the Atri­um so that they rang like bells. There were no more foot­steps. She had stopped run­ning. He crouched be­hind the stat­ues, lis­ten­ing.

`Come out, come out, lit­tle Har­ry!' she called in her mock ba­by voice, which echoed off the pol­ished wood­en floors. `What did you come af­ter me for, then? I thought you were here to avenge my dear cousin!'

`I am!' shout­ed Har­ry, and a score of ghost­ly Har­rys seemed to cho­rus I am! I am! I am! all around the room

`Aaaaaah … did you love him, lit­tle ba­by Pot­ter?'

Ha­tred rose in Har­ry such as he had nev­er known be­fore; he flung him­self out from be­hind the foun­tain and bel­lowed, `Cru­cio!'

Bel­la­trix screamed: the spell had knocked her off her feet, but she did not writhe and shriek with pain as Neville had - she was al­ready back on her feet, breath­less, no longer laugh­ing. Har­ry dodged be­hind the gold­en foun­tain again. Her counter-​spell hit the head of the hand­some wiz­ard, which was blown off and land­ed twen­ty feet away, goug­ing long scratch­es in­to the wood­en floor.

`Nev­er used an Un­for­giv­able Curse be­fore, have you, boy?' she yelled. She had aban­doned her ba­by voice now. `You need to mean them, Pot­ter! You need to re­al­ly want to cause pain - to en­joy it - righ­teous anger won't hurt me for long - I'll show you how it is done, shall I? I'll give you a les­son -'

Har­ry was edg­ing around the foun­tain on the oth­er side when she screamed, `Cru­cio!' and he was forced to duck down again as the cen­taur's arm, hold­ing its bow, span off and land­ed with a crash on the floor a short dis­tance from the gold­en wiz­ard's head.

`Pot­ter, you can­not win against me!' she cried.

He could hear her mov­ing to the right, try­ing to get a clear shot of him. He backed around the stat­ue away from her, crouch­ing be­hind the cen­taur's legs, his head lev­el with the house-​elf's.

`I was and am the Dark Lord's most loy­al ser­vant. I learned the Dark Arts from him, and I know spells of such pow­er that you, pa­thet­ic lit­tle boy, can nev­er hope to com­pete =

`Stu­pe­fy!' yelled Har­ry. He had edged right around to where the gob­lin stood beam­ing up at the now head­less wiz­ard and tak­en aim at her back as she peered around the foun­tain. She re­act­ed so fast he bare­ly had time to duck.

`Pro­tego!'

The jet of red light, his own Stun­ning Spell, bounced back at him. Har­ry scram­bled back be­hind the foun­tain and one of the gob­lin's ears went fly­ing across the room.

`Pot­ter, I'm go­ing to give you one chance!' shout­ed Bel­la­trix. `Give me the prophe­cy - roll it out to­wards me now - and I may spare your life!'

`Well, you're go­ing to have to kill me, be­cause it's gone!' Har­ry

roared and, as he shout­ed it, pain seared across his fore­head; his scar was on fire again, and he felt a surge of fury that was quite un­con­nect­ed with his own rage. `And he knows!' said Har­ry, with a mad laugh to match Bel­la­trix's own. `Your dear old mate Volde­mort knows it's gone! He's not go­ing to be hap­py with you, is he?'

'What? What do you mean?' she cried, and for the first time there was fear in her voice.

`The prophe­cy smashed when I was try­ing to get Neville up the steps! What do you think Volde­mort'll say about that, then?'

His scar seared and burned… the pain of it was mak­ing his eyes stream…

`LIAR!' she shrieked, but he could hear the ter­ror be­hind the anger now. `YOU'VE GOT IT, POT­TER, AND YOU WILL GIVE IT TO ME! Ac­cio prophe­cy! AC­CIO PROPHE­CY!'

Har­ry laughed again be­cause he knew it would in­cense her, the pain build­ing in his head so bad­ly he thought his skull might burst. He waved his emp­ty hand from be­hind the one-​eared gob­lin and with­drew it quick­ly as she sent an­oth­er jet of green light fly­ing at him.

`Noth­ing there!' he shout­ed. `Noth­ing to sum­mon! It smashed and no­body heard what it said, tell your boss that!'

`No!' she screamed. `It isn't true, you're ly­ing! MAS­TER, I TRIED, I TRIED - DO NOT PUN­ISH ME =

`Don't waste your breath!' yelled Har­ry, his eyes screwed up against the pain in his scar, now more ter­ri­ble than ev­er. `He can't hear you from here!'

`Can't I, Pot­ter?' said a high, cold voice.

Har­ry opened his eyes.

Tall, thin and black-​hood­ed, his ter­ri­ble snake­like face white and gaunt, his scar­let, slit-​pupilled eyes star­ing… Lord Volde­mort had ap­peared in the mid­dle of the hall, his wand point­ing at Har­ry who stood frozen, quite un­able to move.

`So, you smashed my prophe­cy?' said Volde­mort soft­ly, star­ing at Har­ry with those piti­less red eyes. `No, Bel­la, he is not ly­ing… I see the truth look­ing at me from with­in his worth­less mind… months of prepa­ra­tion, months of ef­fort… and my Death Eaters have let Har­ry Pot­ter thwart me again …I

'Mas­ter, I am sor­ry I knew not, I was fight­ing the An­ima­gus Black!' sobbed Bel­la­trix, fling­ing her­self down at Volde­mort's feet as he paced slow­ly near­er. `Mas­ter, you should know =

`Be qui­et, Bel­la,' said Volde­mort dan­ger­ous­ly. `I shall deal with you in a mo­ment. Do you think I have en­tered the Min­istry of Mag­ic to hear your sniv­el­ling apolo­gies?T

'But Mas­ter - he is here - he is be­low =

Volde­mort paid no at­ten­tion.

`I have noth­ing more to say to you, Pot­ter,' he said qui­et­ly. `You have irked me too of­ten, for too long. AVA­DA KE­DAVRA!'

Har­ry had not even opened his mouth to re­sist; his mind was blank, his wand point­ing use­less­ly at the floor.

But the head­less gold­en stat­ue of the wiz­ard in the foun­tain had sprung alive, leap­ing from its plinth to land with a crash on the floor be­tween Har­ry and Volde­mort. The spell mere­ly glanced off its chest as the stat­ue flung out its arms to pro­tect Har­ry.

`What -?' cried Volde­mort, star­ing around. And then he breathed, `Dum­ble­dore!'

Har­ry looked be­hind him, his heart pound­ing. Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing in front of the gold­en gates.

Volde­mort raised his wand and an­oth­er jet of green light streaked at Dum­ble­dore, who turned and was gone in a whirling of his cloak. Next sec­ond, he had reap­peared be­hind Volde­mort and waved his wand to­wards the rem­nants of the foun­tain. The oth­er stat­ues sprang to life. The stat­ue of the witch ran at Bel­la­trix, who screamed and sent spells stream­ing use­less­ly off its chest, be­fore it dived at her, pin­ning her to the floor. Mean­while, the gob­lin and the house-​elf scut­tled to­wards the fire­places set along the wall and the one-​armed cen­taur gal­loped at Volde­mort, who van­ished and reap­peared be­side the pool. The head­less stat­ue thrust Har­ry back­wards, away from the fight, as Dum­ble­dore ad­vanced on Volde­mort and the gold­en cen­taur can­tered around them both.

`It was fool­ish to come here tonight, Tom,' said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. `The Au­rors are on their way =

`By which time I shall be gone, and you will be dead!' spat Volde­mort. He sent an­oth­er killing curse at Dum­ble­dore but

missed, in­stead hit­ting the se­cu­ri­ty guard's desk, which burst in­to flame.

Dum­ble­dore flicked his own wand: the force of the spell that em­anat­ed from it was such that Har­ry, though shield­ed by his gold­en guard, felt his hair stand on end as it passed and this time Volde­mort was forced to con­jure a shin­ing sil­ver shield out of thin air to de­flect it. The spell, what­ev­er it was, caused no vis­ible dam­age to the shield, though a deep, gong-​like note re­ver­ber­at­ed from it - an odd­ly chill­ing sound.

`You do not seek to kill me, Dum­ble­dore?' called Volde­mort, his scar­let eyes nar­rowed over the top of the shield. `Above such bru­tal­ity, are you?'

'We both know that there are oth­er ways of de­stroy­ing a man, Tom,' Dum­ble­dore said calm­ly, con­tin­uing to walk to­wards Volde­mort as though he had not a fear in the world, as though noth­ing had hap­pened to in­ter­rupt his stroll up the hall. `Mere­ly tak­ing your life would not sat­is­fy me, I ad­mit =

`There is noth­ing worse than death, Dum­ble­dore!' snarled Volde­mort.

`You are quite wrong,' said Dum­ble­dore, still clos­ing in up­on Volde­mort and speak­ing as light­ly as though they were dis­cussing the mat­ter over drinks. Har­ry felt scared to see him walk­ing along, un­de­fend­ed, shield­less; he want­ed to cry out a warn­ing, but his head­less guard kept shunt­ing him back­wards to­wards the wall, block­ing his ev­ery at­tempt to get out from be­hind it. `In­deed, your fail­ure to un­der­stand that there are things much worse than death has al­ways been your great­est weak­ness =

An­oth­er jet of green light flew from be­hind the sil­ver shield. This time it was the one-​armed cen­taur, gal­lop­ing in front of Dum­ble­dore, that took the blast and shat­tered in­to a hun­dred pieces, but be­fore the frag­ments had even hit the floor, Dum­ble­dore had drawn back his wand and waved it as though bran­dish­ing a whip. A long thin flame flew from the tip; it wrapped it­self around Volde­mort, shield and all. For a mo­ment, it seemed Dum­ble­dore had won, but then the fiery rope be­came a ser­pent, which re­lin­quished its hold on Volde­mort at once and turned, hiss­ing fu­ri­ous­ly, to face Dum­ble­dore.

Volde­mort van­ished; the snake reared from the floor, ready to strike

There was a burst of flame in midair above Dum­ble­dore just as Volde­mort reap­peared, stand­ing on the plinth in the mid­dle of the pool where so re­cent­ly the five stat­ues had stood.

`Look out!' Har­ry yelled.

But even as he shout­ed, an­oth­er jet of green light flew at Dum­ble­dore from Volde­mort's wand and the snake struck

Fawkes swooped down in front of Dum­ble­dore, opened his beak wide and swal­lowed the jet of green light whole: he burst in­to flame and fell to the floor, small, wrin­kled and flight­less. At the same mo­ment, Dum­ble­dore bran­dished his wand in one long, flu­id move­ment - the snake, which had been an in­stant from sink­ing its fangs in­to him, flew high in­to the air and van­ished in a wisp of dark smoke; and the wa­ter in the pool rose up and cov­ered Volde­mort like a co­coon of molten glass.

For a few sec­onds Volde­mort was vis­ible on­ly as a dark, rip­pling, face­less fig­ure, shim­mer­ing and in­dis­tinct up­on the plinth, clear­ly strug­gling to throw off the suf­fo­cat­ing mass

Then he was gone and the wa­ter fell with a crash back in­to its pool, slop­ping wild­ly over the sides, drench­ing the pol­ished floor.

`MAS­TER!' screamed Bel­la­trix.

Sure it was over, sure Volde­mort had de­cid­ed to flee, Har­ry made to run out from be­hind his stat­ue guard, but Dum­ble­dore bel­lowed: `Stay where you are, Har­ry!'

For the first time, Dum­ble­dore sound­ed fright­ened. Har­ry could not see why: the hall was quite emp­ty but for them­selves, the sob­bing Bel­la­trix still trapped un­der the witch stat­ue, and the ba­by phoenix Fawkes croak­ing fee­bly on the floor

Then Har­ry's scar burst open and he knew he was dead: it was pain be­yond imag­in­ing, pain past en­durance

He was gone from the hall, he was locked in the coils of a crea­ture with red eyes, so tight­ly bound that Har­ry did not know where his body end­ed and the crea­ture's be­gan: they were fused to­geth­er, bound by pain, and there was no es­cape

And when the crea­ture spoke, it used Har­ry's mouth, so that in his agony he felt his jaw move

`Kill me now, Dum­ble­dore…'

Blind­ed and dy­ing, ev­ery part of him scream­ing for re­lease, Har­ry felt the crea­ture use him again…

`If death is noth­ing, Dum­ble­dore, kill the boy…'

Let the pain stop, thought Har­ry… let him kill us… end it, Dum­ble­dore… death is noth­ing com­pared to this…

And I'll see Sir­ius again…

And as Har­ry's heart filled with emo­tion, the crea­ture's coils loos­ened, the pain was gone; Har­ry was ly­ing face down on the floor, his glass­es gone, shiv­er­ing as though he lay up­on ice, not wood…

And there were voic­es echo­ing through the hall, more voic­es than there should have been… Har­ry opened his eyes, saw his glass­es ly­ing by the heel of the head­less stat­ue that had been guard­ing him, but which now lay flat on its back, cracked and im­mo­bile. He put them on and raised his head a lit­tle to find Dum­ble­dore's crooked nose inch­es from his own.

`Are you all right, Har­ry?'

`Yes,' said Har­ry, shak­ing so vi­olent­ly he could not hold his head up prop­er­ly. `Yeah, I'm - where's Volde­mort, where - who are all these - what's -

The Atri­um was full of peo­ple; the floor was re­flect­ing the emer­ald green flames that had burst in­to life in all the fire­places along one wall; and streams of witch­es and wiz­ards were emerg­ing from them. As Dum­ble­dore pulled him back to his feet, Har­ry saw the tiny gold stat­ues of the house-​elf and the gob­lin, lead­ing a stunned-​look­ing Cor­nelius Fudge for­ward.

`He was there!' shout­ed a scar­let-​robed man with a pony­tail, who was point­ing at a pile of gold­en rub­ble on the oth­er side of the hall, where Bel­la­trix had lain trapped on­ly mo­ments be­fore. `I saw him, Mr Fudge, I swear it was You-​Know-​Who, he grabbed a wom­an and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed!'

`I know, Williamson, I know, I saw him too!' gib­bered Fudge, who was wear­ing py­ja­mas un­der his pin­striped cloak and was gasp­ing as though he had just run miles. `Mer­lin's beard - here - here! - in the Min­istry of Mag­ic! - great heav­ens above - it doesn't seem pos­si­ble - my word - how can this be -?T

'if you pro­ceed down­stairs in­to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, Cor­nelius,' said Dum­ble­dore - ap­par­ent­ly sat­is­fied that Har­ry was all right, and walk­ing for­wards so that the new­com­ers re­alised he was there for the first time (a few of them raised their wands; oth­ers sim­ply looked amazed; the stat­ues of the elf and gob­lin ap­plaud­ed and Fudge jumped so much that his slip­per-​clad feet left the floor) - `you will find sev­er­al es­caped Death Eaters con­tained in the Death Cham­ber, bound by an An­ti-​Dis­ap­pa­ra­tion Jinx and await­ing your de­ci­sion as to what to do with them.'

'Dum­ble­dore!' gasped Fudge, be­side him­self with amaze­ment. `You-​here-​I-​I=

He looked wild­ly around at the Au­rors he had brought with him and it could not have been clear­er that he was in half a mind to cry, `Seize him!'

'Cor­nelius, I am ready to fight your men - and win, again!' said Dum­ble­dore in a thun­der­ous voice. `But a few min­utes ago you saw proof, with your own eyes, that I have been telling you the truth for a year. Lord Volde­mort has re­turned, you have been chas­ing the wrong man for twelve months, and it is time -you lis­tened to sense!'

`I - don't - well = blus­tered Fudge, look­ing around as though hop­ing some­body was go­ing to tell him what to do. When no­body did, he said, `Very well - Dawlish! Williamson! Go down to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies and see… Dum­ble­dore, you - you will need to tell me ex­act­ly - the Foun­tain of Mag­ical Brethren - what hap­pened?' he added in a kind of whim­per, star­ing around at the floor, where the re­mains of the stat­ues of the witch, wiz­ard and cen­taur now lay scat­tered.

`We can dis­cuss that af­ter I have sent Har­ry back to Hog­warts,' said Dum­ble­dore.

`Har­ry - Har­ry Pot­ter?'

Fudge wheeled around and stared at Har­ry, who was still stand­ing against the wall be­side the fall­en stat­ue that had guard­ed him dur­ing Dum­ble­dore and Volde­mort's du­el.

`He - here?' said Fudge, gog­gling at Har­ry. `Why - what's all this about?T

'I shall ex­plain ev­ery­thing,' re­peat­ed Dum­ble­dore, `when Har­ry is back at school.'

He walked away from the pool to the place where the gold­en wiz­ard's head lay on the floor. He point­ed his wand at it and mut­tered, `Por­tus.' The head glowed blue and trem­bled nois­ily against the wood­en floor for a few sec­onds, then be­came still once more.

`Now see here, Dum­ble­dore!' said Fudge, as Dum­ble­dore picked up the head and walked back to Har­ry car­ry­ing it. `You haven't got au­tho­ri­sa­tion for that Portkey! You can't do things like that right in front of the Min­is­ter for Mag­ic, you - you =

His voice fal­tered as Dum­ble­dore sur­veyed him mag­is­te­ri­al­ly over his half-​moon spec­ta­cles.

`You will give the or­der to re­move Do­lores Um­bridge from Hog­warts,' said Dum­ble­dore. `You will tell your Au­rors to stop search­ing for my Care of Mag­ical Crea­tures teach­er so that he can re­turn to work. I will give you …' Dum­ble­dore pulled a watch with twelve hands from his pock­et and sur­veyed it'… half an hour of my time tonight, in which I think we shall be more than able to cov­er the im­por­tant points of what has hap­pened here. Af­ter that, I shall need to re­turn to my school. If you need more help from me you are, of course, more than wel­come to con­tact me at Hog­warts. Let­ters ad­dressed to the Head­mas­ter will find me.'

Fudge gog­gled worse than ev­er; his mouth was open and his round face grew pinker un­der his rum­pled grey hair.

`I - you =

Dum­ble­dore turned his back on him.

`Take this Portkey, Har­ry.'

He held out the gold­en head of the stat­ue and Har­ry placed his hand on it, past car­ing what he did next or where he went.

`I shall see you in half an hour,' said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly `One … two … three …'

Har­ry felt the fa­mil­iar sen­sa­tion of a hook be­ing jerked be­hind his navel. The pol­ished wood­en floor was gone from be­neath his feet; the Atri­um, Fudge and Dum­ble­dore had all dis­ap­peared and he was fly­ing for­wards in a whirl­wind of colour and sound …





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 37 - The Lost Prophecy


Har­ry's feet hit sol­id ground; his knees buck­led a lit­tle and the gold­en wiz­ard's head fell with a re­sound­ing dunk to the floor. He looked around and saw that he had ar­rived in Dum­ble­dore's of­fice.

Ev­ery­thing seemed to have re­paired it­self dur­ing the Head­mas­ter's ab­sence. The del­icate sil­ver in­stru­ments stood once more on the spin­dle-​legged ta­bles, puff­ing and whirring serene­ly. The por­traits of the head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es were snooz­ing in their frames, heads lolling back in arm­chairs or against the edge of the pic­ture. Har­ry looked through the win­dow. There was a cool line of pale green along the hori­zon: dawn was ap­proach­ing.

The si­lence and the still­ness, bro­ken on­ly by the oc­ca­sion­al grunt or snuf­fle of a sleep­ing por­trait, was un­bear­able to him. If his sur­round­ings could have re­flect­ed the feel­ings in­side him, the pic­tures would have been scream­ing in pain. He walked around the qui­et, beau­ti­ful of­fice, breath­ing quick­ly, try­ing not to think. But he had to think… there was no es­cape…

It was his fault Sir­ius had died; it was all his fault. If he, Har­ry, had not been stupid enough to fall for Volde­mort's trick, if he had not been so con­vinced that what he had seen in his dream was re­al, if he had on­ly opened his mind to the pos­si­bil­ity that Volde­mort was, as Hermione had said, bank­ing on Har­ry's love of play­ing the hero…

It was un­bear­able, he would not think about it, he could not stand it… there was a ter­ri­ble hol­low in­side him he did not want to feel or ex­am­ine, a dark hole where Sir­ius had been, where Sir­ius had van­ished; he did not want to have to be alonc with that great, silent space, he could not stand it -

A pic­ture be­hind him gave a par­tic­ular­ly loud grunt­ing snore, and a cool voice said, 'Ali … Har­ry Pot­ter …'

Phineas Nigel­lus gave a long yawn, stretch­ing his arms as he sur­veyed Har­ry out of shrewd, nar­row eyes.

`And what brings you here in the ear­ly hours of the morn­ing?' said Phineas even­tu­al­ly `This of­fice is sup­posed to be barred to all but the right­ful Head­mas­ter. Or has Dum­ble­dore sent you here? Oh, don't tell me …' He gave an­oth­er shud­der­ing yawn. `An­oth­er mes­sage for my worth­less great-​great-​grand­son?'

Har­ry could not speak. Phineas Nigel­lus did not know that Sir­ius was dead, but Har­ry could not tell him. To say it aloud would be to make it fi­nal, ab­so­lute, ir­re­triev­able.

A few more of the por­traits had stirred now. Ter­ror of be­ing in­ter­ro­gat­ed made Har­ry stride across the room and seize the door­knob.

It would not turn. He was shut in.

`I hope this means,' said the cor­pu­lent, red-​nosed wiz­ard who hung on the wall be­hind the Head­mas­ter's desk, `that Dum­ble­dore will soon be back among us?'

Har­ry turned. The wiz­ard was sur­vey­ing him with great in­ter­est. Har­ry nod­ded. He tugged again on the door­knob be­hind his back, but it re­mained im­mov­able.

`Oh good,' said the wiz­ard. `It has been very dull with­out him, very dull in­deed.'

He set­tled him­self on the throne-​like chair on which he had been paint­ed and smiled be­nign­ly up­on Har­ry

'Dum­ble­dore thinks very high­ly of you, as I am sure you know,' he said com­fort­ably. `Oh yes. Holds you in great es­teem.'

The guilt fill­ing the whole of Har­ry's chest like some mon­strous, weighty par­asite, now writhed and squirmed. Har­ry could not stand this, he could not stand be­ing him­self any more … he had nev­er felt more trapped in­side his own head and body, nev­er wished so in­tense­ly that he could be some­body; any­body, else …

The emp­ty fire­place burst in­to emer­ald green flame, mak­ing Har­ry leap away from the door, star­ing at the man spin­ning in­side the grate. As Dum­ble­dore's tall form un­fold­ed it­self from the fire, the wiz­ards and witch­es on the sur­round­ing walls jerked awake, many of them giv­ing cries of wel­come.

'Thank you,' said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly.

He did not look at Har­ry at first, but walked over to the perch be­side the door and with­drew, from an in­side pock­et of his robes, the tiny, ug­ly, feath­er­less Fawkes, whom he placed gen­tly on the tray of soft ash­es be­neath the gold­en post where the full-​grown Fawkes usu­al­ly stood.

`Well, Har­ry,' said Dum­ble­dore, fi­nal­ly turn­ing away from the ba­by bird, `you will be pleased to hear that none of your fel­low stu­dents are go­ing to suf­fer last­ing dam­age from the night's events.'

Har­ry tried to say, `Good,' but no sound came out. It seemed to him that Dum­ble­dore was re­mind­ing him of the amount of dam­age he had caused, and al­though Dum­ble­dore was for once look­ing at him di­rect­ly, and al­though his ex­pres­sion was kind­ly rather than ac­cusato­ry, Har­ry could not bear to meet his eyes.

`Madam Pom­frey is patch­ing ev­ery­body up,' said Dum­ble­dore. 'Nymphado­ra Tonks may need to spend a lit­tle time in St Mun­go's, but it seems she will make a full re­cov­ery.'

Har­ry con­tent­ed him­self with nod­ding at the car­pet, which was grow­ing lighter as the sky out­side grew paler. He was sure all the por­traits around the room were lis­ten­ing close­ly to ev­ery word Dum­ble­dore spoke, won­der­ing where Dum­ble­dore and Har­ry had been, and why there had been in­juries.

'I know how you're feel­ing, Har­ry,' said Dum­ble­dore very qui­et­ly.

`No, you don't,' said Har­ry, and his voice was sud­den­ly loud and strong; white-​hot anger leapt in­side him; Dum­ble­dore knew noth­ing about his feel­ings.

`You see, Dum­ble­dore?' said Phineas Nigel­lus sly­ly `Nev­er try to un­der­stand the stu­dents. They hate it. They would much rather be trag­ical­ly mis­un­der­stood, wal­low in self-​pity, stew in their own -'

`That's enough, Phineas,' said Dum­ble­dore.

Har­ry turned his back on Dum­ble­dore and stared de­ter­mined­ly out of the win­dow. He could see the Quid­ditch sta­di­um in the dis­tance. Sir­ius had ap­peared there once, dis­guised as the shag­gy black dog, so he could watch Har­ry play … he had prob­ably come to see whether Har­ry was as good as James had been… Har­ry had nev­er asked him …

`There is no shame in what you are feel­ing, Har­ry,' said

Dum­ble­dore's voice. `On the con­trary… the fact that you can feel pain like this is your great­est strength.'

Har­ry felt the white-​hot anger lick his in­sides, blaz­ing in the ter­ri­ble empti­ness, fill­ing him with the de­sire to hurt Dum­ble­dore for his calm­ness and his emp­ty words.

`My great­est strength, is it?' said Har­ry, his voice shak­ing as he stared out at the Quid­ditch sta­di­um, no longer see­ing it. `You haven't got a clue… you don't know…'

`What don't I know?' asked Dum­ble­dore calm­ly.

It was too much. Har­ry turned around, shak­ing with rage.

`I don't want to talk about how I feel, all right?T

'Har­ry, suf­fer­ing like this proves you are still a man! This pain is part of be­ing hu­man =

`THEN - I - DON'T - WANT - TO - BE - HU­MAN!' Har­ry roared, and he seized the del­icate sil­ver in­stru­ment from the spindle­legged ta­ble be­side him and flung it across the room; it shat­tered in­to a hun­dred tiny pieces against the wall. Sev­er­al of the pic­tures let out yells of anger and fright, and the por­trait of Ar­man­do Dip­pet said, `Re­al­ly!'

`I DON'T CARE!' Har­ry yelled at them, snatch­ing up a lu­nascope and throw­ing it in­to the fire­place. `I'VE HAD ENOUGH, I'VE SEEN ENOUGH, I WANT OUT, I WANT IT TO END, I DON'T CARE ANY MORE =

He seized the ta­ble on which the sil­ver in­stru­ment had stood and threw that, too. It broke apart on the floor and the legs rolled in dif­fer­ent di­rec­tions.

`You do care,' said Dum­ble­dore. He had not flinched or made a sin­gle move to stop Har­ry de­mol­ish­ing his of­fice. His ex­pres­sion was calm, al­most de­tached. `You care so much you feel as though you will bleed to death with the pain of it.'

`I - DON'T!' Har­ry screamed, so loud­ly that he felt his throat might tear, and for a sec­ond he want­ed to rush at Dum­ble­dore and break him, too; shat­ter that calm old face, shake him, hurt him, make him feel some tiny part of the hor­ror in­side him­self.

`Oh, yes, you do,' said Dum­ble­dore, still more calm­ly. `You have now lost your moth­er, your fa­ther, and the clos­est thing to a par­ent you have ev­er known. Of course you care.'

`YOU DON'T KNOW HOW I FEEL!' Har­ry roared. `YOU - STAND­ING THERE - YOU =

But words were no longer enough, smash­ing things was no more

help; he want­ed to run, he want­ed to keep run­ning and nev­er look back, he want­ed to be some­where he could not see the clear blue eyes star­ing at him, that hate­ful­ly calm old face. He turned on his heel and ran to the door, seized the door­knob again and wrenched at it.

But the door would not open.

Har­ry turned back to Dum­ble­dore.

`Let me out,' he said. He was shak­ing from head to foot.

`No,' said Dum­ble­dore., sim­ply.

For a few sec­onds they stared at each oth­er.

`Let me out,' Har­ry said again.

`No,' Dum­ble­dore re­peat­ed.

`If you don't - if you keep me in here - if you don't let me =

`By all means con­tin­ue de­stroy­ing my pos­ses­sions,' said Dum­ble­dore serene­ly. `I dare­say I have too many.'

He walked around his desk and sat down. be­hind it, watch­ing

Har­ry

`Let me out,' Har­ry said yet again, in a voice that was cold and al­most as calm as Dum­ble­dore's.

`Not un­til I have had my say,' said Dum­ble­dore.

`Do you - do you think I want to - do you think I give a - I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU'VE GOT TO SAY!' Har­ry roared. `I don't want to hear any­thing you've got to say!'

`You will,' said Dum­ble­dore steadi­ly. `Be­cause you are not near­ly as an­gry with me as you ought to be. If you are to at­tack me, as

I know you are close to do­ing, I would like to have thor­ough­ly earned it.'

`What are you talk­ing -?T

'It is my fault that Sir­ius died,' said Dum­ble­dore clear­ly. `Or should I say, al­most en­tire­ly my fault - I will not be so ar­ro­gant as to claim re­spon­si­bil­ity for the whole. Sir­ius was a brave, clever and en­er­get­ic man, and such men are not usu­al­ly con­tent to sit at home in hid­ing while they be­lieve oth­ers to be in dan­ger. Nev­er­the­less, you should nev­er have be­lieved for an in­stant that there was any ne­ces­si­ty

for you to go to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies tonight. If I had been open with you, Har­ry, as I should have been, you would have known a long time ago that Volde­mort might try and lure you to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies, and you would nev­er have been tricked in­to go­ing there tonight. And Sir­ius would not have had to come af­ter you. That blame lies with me, and with me alone.'

Har­ry was still stand­ing with his hand on the door­knob but was un­aware of it. He was gaz­ing at Dum­ble­dore, hard­ly breath­ing, lis­ten­ing yet bare­ly un­der­stand­ing what he was hear­ing.

`Please sit down,' said Dum­ble­dore. It was not an or­der, it was a re­quest.

Har­ry hes­itat­ed, then walked slow­ly across the room now lit­tered with sil­ver cogs and frag­ments of wood, and took the seat fac­ing Dum­ble­dore's desk.

`Am I to un­der­stand,' said Phineas Nigel­lus slow­ly from Har­ry's left, `that my great-​great-​grand­son - the last of the Blacks - is dead?'

`Yes, Phineas,' said Dum­ble­dore.

`I don't be­lieve it,' said Phineas brusque­ly.

Har­ry turned his head in time to see Phineas march­ing out of his por­trait and knew that he had gone to vis­it his oth­er paint­ing in Grim­mauld Place. He would walk, per­haps, from por­trait to por­trait, call­ing for Sir­ius through the house …

`Har­ry, I owe you an ex­pla­na­tion,' said Dum­ble­dore. `An ex­pla­na­tion of an old man's mis­takes. For I see now that what I have done, and not done, with re­gard to you, bears all the hall­marks of the fail­ings of age. Youth can­not know how age thinks and feels. But old men are guilty if they for­get what it was to be young … and I seem to have for­got­ten, late­ly …'

The sun was ris­ing prop­er­ly now; there was a rim of daz­zling or­ange vis­ible over the moun­tains and the sky above it was colour­less and bright. The light fell up­on Dum­ble­dore, up­on the sil­ver of his eye­brows and beard, up­on the lines gouged deeply in­to his face.

`I guessed, fif­teen years ago,' said Dum­ble­dore, `when I saw the scar on your fore­head, what it might mean. I guessed that it might be the sign of a con­nec­tion forged be­tween you and Volde­mort.'

`You've told me this be­fore, Pro­fes­sor,' said Har­ry blunt­ly. He did not care about be­ing rude. He did not care about any­thing very much any more.

`Yes,' said Dum­ble­dore apolo­get­ical­ly. `Yes, but you see - it is nec­es­sary to start with your scar. For it be­came ap­par­ent, short­ly af­ter you re­joined the mag­ical world, that I was cor­rect, and that your scar was giv­ing you warn­ings when Volde­mort was close to you, or else feel­ing pow­er­ful emo­tion.'

`I know,' said Har­ry weari­ly

`And this abil­ity of yours - to de­tect Volde­mort's pres­ence, even when he is dis­guised, and to know what he is feel­ing when his emo­tions are roused - has be­come more and more pro­nounced since Volde­mort re­turned to his own body and his full pow­ers.'

Har­ry did not both­er to nod. He knew all of this al­ready.

`More re­cent­ly' said Dum­ble­dore, `I be­came con­cerned that Volde­mort might re­alise that this con­nec­tion be­tween you ex­ists. Sure enough, there came a time when you en­tered so far in­to his mind and thoughts that he sensed your pres­ence. I am speak­ing, of course, of the night when you wit­nessed the at­tack on Mr Weasley'

`Yeah, Snape told me,' Har­ry mut­tered.

`Pro­fes­sor Snape, Har­ry' Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed him qui­et­ly. `But did you not won­der why it was not I who ex­plained this to you? Why I did not teach you Oc­clu­men­cy? Why I had not so much as looked at you for months?'

Har­ry looked up. He could see now that Dum­ble­dore looked sad and tired.

`Yeah,' Har­ry mum­bled. `Yeah, I won­dered.'

`You see,' Dum­ble­dore con­tin­ued, `I be­lieved it could not be long be­fore Volde­mort at­tempt­ed to force his way in­to your mind, to ma­nip­ulate and mis­di­rect your thoughts, and I was not ea­ger to give him more in­cen­tives to do so. I was sure that if he re­alised that our re­la­tion­ship was - or had ev­er been - clos­er than that of head­mas­ter and pupil, he would seize his chance to use you as a means to spy on me. I feared the us­es to which he would put you, the pos­si­bil­ity that he might try and pos­sess you. Har­ry, I be­lieve I was right to think that Volde­mort would have made use of you

in such a way. On those rare oc­ca­sions when we had close con­tact, I thought I saw a shad­ow of him stir be­hind your eyes …

Har­ry re­mem­bered the feel­ing that a dor­mant snake had risen in him, ready to strike, in those mo­ments when he and Dum­ble­dore had made eye-​con­tact.

`Volde­mort's aim in pos­sess­ing you, as he demon­strat­ed tonight, would not have been my de­struc­tion. It would have been yours. He hoped, when he pos­sessed you briefly a short while ago, that I would sac­ri­fice you in the hope of killing him. So you see, I have been try­ing, in dis­tanc­ing my­self from you, to pro­tect you, Har­ry. An old man's mis­take …'

He sighed deeply. Har­ry was let­ting the words wash over him. He would have been so in­ter­est­ed to know all this a few months ago, but now it was mean­ing­less com­pared to the gap­ing chasm in­side him that was the loss of Sir­ius; none of it mat­tered …

'Sir­ius told me you felt Volde­mort awake in­side you the very night that you had the vi­sion of Arthur Weasley's at­tack. I knew at once that my worst fears were cor­rect: Volde­mort had re­alised he could use you. In an at­tempt to arm you against Volde­mort's as­saults on your mind, I ar­ranged Oc­clu­men­cy lessons with Pro­fes­sor Snape.'

He paused. Har­ry watched the sun­light, which was slid­ing slow­ly across the pol­ished sur­face of Dum­ble­dore's desk, il­lu­mi­nate a sil­ver ink pot and a hand­some scar­let quill. Har­ry could tell that the por­traits all around them were awake and lis­ten­ing rapt­ly to Dum­ble­dore's ex­pla­na­tion; he could hear the oc­ca­sion­al rus­tle of robes, the slight clear­ing of a throat. Phineas Nigel­lus had still not re­turned …

`Pro­fes­sor Snape dis­cov­ered,' Dum­ble­dore re­sumed, `that you had been dream­ing about the door to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies for months. Volde­mort, of course, had been ob­sessed with the pos­si­bil­ity of hear­ing the prophe­cy ev­er since he re­gained his body; and as he dwelled on the door, so did you, though you did not know what it meant.

`And then you saw Rock­wood, who worked in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies be­fore his ar­rest, telling Volde­mort what we had known all along -that the prophe­cies held in the Min­istry of Mag­ic are

heav­ily pro­tect­ed. On­ly the peo­ple to whom they re­fer can lift them

from the shelves with­out suf­fer­ing mad­ness: in this case, ei­ther Volde­mort him­self would have to en­ter the Min­istry of Mag­ic, and risk re­veal­ing him­self at last - or else you would have to take it for him. It be­came a mat­ter of even greater ur­gen­cy that you should mas­ter Oc­clu­men­cy'

`But I didn't,' mut­tered Har­ry. He said it aloud to try and ease the dead weight of guilt in­side him: a con­fes­sion must sure­ly re­lieve some of the ter­ri­ble pres­sure squeez­ing his heart. `I didn't prac­tise, I didn't both­er, I could've stopped my­self hav­ing those dreams, Hermione kept telling me to do it, if I had he'd nev­er have been able to show me where to go, and - Sir­ius wouldn't - Sir­ius wouldn't =

Some­thing was erupt­ing in­side Har­ry's head: a need to jus­ti­fy him­self, to ex­plain -

`I tried to check he'd re­al­ly tak­en Sir­ius, I went to Um­bridge's of­fice, I spoke to Kreach­er in the fire and he said Sir­ius wasn't there, he said he'd gone!'

`Kreach­er lied,' said Dum­ble­dore calm­ly. `You are not his mas­ter, he could lie to you with­out even need­ing to pun­ish him­self. Kreach­er in­tend­ed you to go to the Min­istry of Mag­ic.'

`He - he sent me on pur­pose?T

'Oh yes. Kreach­er, I am afraid, has been serv­ing more than one mas­ter for months.'

`How?' said Har­ry blankly. `He hasn't been out of Grim­mauld

Place for years.'

`Kreach­er seized his op­por­tu­ni­ty short­ly be­fore Christ­mas,' said Dum­ble­dore, `when Sir­ius, ap­par­ent­ly, shout­ed at him to “get out”. He took Sir­ius at his word, and in­ter­pret­ed this as an or­der to leave the house. He went to the on­ly Black fam­ily mem­ber for whom he had any re­spect left … Black's cousin Nar­cis­sa, sis­ter of Bel­la­trix and wife of Lu­cius Mal­foy'

`How do you know all this?' Har­ry said. His heart was beat­ing very fast. He felt sick. He re­mem­bered wor­ry­ing about Kreach­er's odd ab­sence over Christ­mas, re­mem­bered him turn­ing up again

in the at­tic …

`Kreach­er told me last night,' said Dum­ble­dore. `You see, when

you gave Pro­fes­sor Snape that cryp­tic warn­ing, he re­alised that you had had a vi­sion of Sir­ius trapped in the bow­els of the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies. He, like you, at­tempt­ed to con­tact Sir­ius at once. I should ex­plain that mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix have more re­li­able meth­ods of com­mu­ni­cat­ing than the fire in Do­lores Um­bridge's of­fice. Pro­fes­sor Snape found that Sir­ius was alive and safe in Grim­mauld Place.

`When, how­ev­er, you did not re­turn from your trip in­to the For­est with Do­lores Um­bridge, Pro­fes­sor Snape grew wor­ried that you still be­lieved Sir­ius to be a cap­tive of Lord Volde­mort's. He alert­ed cer­tain Or­der mem­bers at once.'

Dum­ble­dore heaved a great sigh and con­tin­ued, `Alas­tor Moody, Nymphado­ra Tonks, Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt and Re­mus Lupin were at Head­quar­ters when he made con­tact. All agreed to go to your aid at once. Pro­fes­sor Snape re­quest­ed that Sir­ius re­main be­hind, as he need­ed some­body to re­main at Head­quar­ters to tell me what had hap­pened, for I was due there at any mo­ment. In the mean­time he, Pro­fes­sor Snape, in­tend­ed to search the For­est for you.

`But Sir­ius did not wish to re­main be­hind while the oth­ers went to search for you. He del­egat­ed to Kreach­er the task of telling me what had hap­pened. And so it was that when I ar­rived in Grim­mauld Place short­ly af­ter they had all left for the Min­istry, it was the elf who told me - laugh­ing fit to burst - where Sir­ius had gone.'

`He was laugh­ing?' said Har­ry in a hol­low voice.

`Oh, yes,' said Dum­ble­dore. `You see, Kreach­er was not able to be­tray us to­tal­ly. He is not Se­cret Keep­er for the Or­der, he could not give the Mal­foys our where­abouts, or tell them any of the Or­der's con­fi­den­tial plans that he had been for­bid­den to re­veal. He was bound by the en­chant­ments of his kind, which is to say that he could not dis­obey a di­rect or­der from his mas­ter, Sir­ius. But he gave Nar­cis­sa in­for­ma­tion of the sort that is very valu­able to Volde­mort, yet must have seemed much too triv­ial for Sir­ius to think of ban­ning him from re­peat­ing it.'

`Like what?' said Har­ry.

`Like the fact that the per­son Sir­ius cared most about in the world was you,' said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly. `Like the fact that you were com­ing to re­gard Sir­ius as a mix­ture of fa­ther and broth­er.

Volde­mort knew al­ready, of course, that Sir­ius was in the Or­der, and that you knew where he was - but Kreach­er's in­for­ma­tion made him re­alise that the one per­son for whom you would go to any lengths to res­cue was Sir­ius Black.'

Har­ry's lips were cold and numb.

`So… when I asked Kreach­er if Sir­ius was there last night…'

`The Mal­foys - un­doubt­ed­ly on Volde­mort's in­struc­tions - had told him he must find a way of keep­ing Sir­ius out of the way once you had seen the vi­sion of Sir­ius be­ing tor­tured. Then, if you de­cid­ed to check whether Sir­ius was at home or not, Kreach­er would be able to pre­tend he was not. Kreach­er in­jured Buck­beak the Hip­pogriff yes­ter­day, and, at the mo­ment when you made your ap­pear­ance in the fire, Sir­ius was up­stairs tend­ing to him.'

There seemed to be very lit­tle air in Har­ry's lungs; his breath­ing was quick and shal­low.

`And Kreach­er told you all this… and laughed?' he croaked.

'He did not wish to tell me,' said Dum­ble­dore. `But I am a suf­fi­cient­ly ac­com­plished Legili­mens my­self to know when I am be­ing lied to and I - per­suad­ed him - to tell me the full sto­ry, be­fore I left for the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies.'

`And,' whis­pered Har­ry, his hands curled in cold fists on his knees, `and Hermione kept telling us to be nice to him =

`She was quite right, Har­ry,' said Dum­ble­dore. `I warned Sir­ius when we adopt­ed twelve Grim­mauld Place as our Head­quar­ters that Kreach­er must be treat­ed with kind­ness and re­spect. I al­so told him that Kreach­er could be dan­ger­ous to us. I do not think Si­nus took me very se­ri­ous­ly, or that he ev­er saw Kreach­er as a be­ing with feel­ings as acute as a hu­man's =

`Don't you blame - don't you - talk - about Sir­ius like -' Har­ry's breath was con­strict­ed, he could not get the words out prop­er­ly; but the rage that had sub­sid­ed briefly flared in him again: he would not let Dum­ble­dore crit­icise Sir­ius. `Kreach­er's a ly­ing - foul - he de­served -

`Kreach­er is what he has been made by wiz­ards, Har­ry' said Dum­ble­dore. `Yes, he is to be pitied. His ex­is­tence has been as mis­er­able as your friend Dob­by's. He was forced to do Sir­ius's bid­ding, be­cause Sir­ius was the last of the fam­ily to which he was

en­slaved, but he felt no true loy­al­ty to him. And what­ev­er Kreach­er's faults, it must be ad­mit­ted that Sir­ius did noth­ing to make Kreach­er's lot eas­ier =

`DON'T TALK ABOUT SIR­IUS LIKE THAT!' Har­ry yelled.

He was on his feet again, fu­ri­ous, ready to fly at Dum­ble­dore, who had plain­ly not un­der­stood Sir­ius at all, how brave he was, how much he had suf­fered …

`What about Snape?' Har­ry spat. `You're not talk­ing about him, are you? When I told him Volde­mort had Sir­ius he just sneered at me as usu­al -

`Har­ry, you know Pro­fes­sor Snape had no choice but to pre­tend not to take you se­ri­ous­ly in front of Do­lores Um­bridge,' said Dum­ble­dore steadi­ly, `but as I have ex­plained, he in­formed the Or­der as soon as pos­si­ble about what you had said. It was he who de­duced where you had gone when you did not re­turn from the For­est. It was he, too, who gave Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge fake Ver­itaserum when she was at­tempt­ing to force you to tell her Sir­ius's where­abouts.'

Har­ry dis­re­gard­ed this; he felt a sav­age plea­sure in blam­ing Snape, it seemed to be eas­ing his own sense of dread­ful guilt, and he want­ed to hear Dum­ble­dore agree with him.

`Snape - Snape g - goad­ed Sir­ius about stay­ing in the house - he made out Sir­ius was a cow­ard =

'Sir­ius was much too old and clever to have al­lowed such fee­ble taunts to hurt him,' said Dum­ble­dore.

`Snape stopped giv­ing me Oc­clu­men­cy lessons!' Har­ry snarled. `He threw me out of his of­fice!'

`I am aware of it,' said Dum­ble­dore heav­ily `I have al­ready said that it was a mis­take for me not to teach you my­self, though I was sure, at the time, that noth­ing could have been more dan­ger­ous than to open your mind even fur­ther to Volde­mort while in my pres­ence -

`Snape made it worse, my scar al­ways hurt worse af­ter lessons with him = Har­ry re­mem­bered Ron's thoughts on the sub­ject and plunged on `- how do you know he wasn't try­ing to soft­en me up for Volde­mort, make it eas­ier for him to get in­side my =

`I trust Severus Snape,' said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply `But I for­got -

an­oth­er old man's mis­take - that some wounds run too deep for the heal­ing. I thought Pro­fes­sor Snape could over­come his feel­ings about your fa­ther - I was wrong.'

`But that's OK, is it?' yelled Har­ry, ig­nor­ing the scan­dalised faces and dis­ap­prov­ing mut­ter­ings of the por­traits on the walls. `It's OK for Snape to hate my dad, but it's not OK for Sir­ius to hate Kreach­er?'

'Sir­ius did not hate Kreach­er,' said Dum­ble­dore. `He re­gard­ed him as a ser­vant un­wor­thy of much in­ter­est or no­tice. In­dif­fer­ence and ne­glect of­ten do much more dam­age than out­right dis­like … the foun­tain we de­stroyed tonight told a lie. We wiz­ards have mis­treat­ed and abused our fel­lows for too long, and we are now reap­ing our re­ward.'

`SO SIR­IUS DE­SERVED WHAT HE GOT, DID HE?' Har­ry yelled.

`I did not say that, nor will you ev­er hear me say it,' Dum­ble­dore replied qui­et­ly. `Si­nus was not a cru­el man, he was kind to house­elves in gen­er­al. He had no love for Kreach­er, be­cause Kreach­er was a liv­ing re­minder of the home Sir­ius had hat­ed.'

`Yeah, he did hate it!' said Har­ry, his voice crack­ing, turn­ing his back on Dum­ble­dore and walk­ing away. The sun was bright in­side the room now and the eyes of all the por­traits fol­lowed him as he walked, with­out re­al­is­ing what he was do­ing, with­out see­ing the of­fice at all. `You made him stay shut up in that house and he hat­ed it, that's why he want­ed to get out last night =

`I was try­ing to keep Sir­ius alive,' said Dum­ble­dore qui­et­ly

`Peo­ple don't like be­ing locked up!' Har­ry said fu­ri­ous­ly, round­ing on him. `You did it to me all last sum­mer =

Dum­ble­dore closed his eyes and buried his face in his longfin­gered hands. Har­ry watched him, but this un­char­ac­ter­is­tic sign of ex­haus­tion, or sad­ness, or what­ev­er it was from Dum­ble­dore, did not soft­en him. On the con­trary, he felt even an­gri­er that Dum­ble­dore was show­ing signs of weak­ness. He had no busi­ness be­ing weak when Har­ry want­ed to rage and storm at him.

Dum­ble­dore low­ered his hands and sur­veyed Har­ry through his half-​moon glass­es.

'It is time,' he said, `for me to tell you what I should have told you five years ago, Har­ry. Please sit down. I am go­ing to tell you ev­ery­thing. I ask on­ly a lit­tle pa­tience. You will have your chance

to rage at me - to do what­ev­er you like - when I have fin­ished. I will not stop you.'

Har­ry glared at him for a mo­ment, then flung him­self back in­to the chair op­po­site Dum­ble­dore and wait­ed.

Dum­ble­dore stared for a mo­ment at the sun­lit grounds out­side the win­dow, then looked back at Har­ry and said, `Five years ago you ar­rived at Hog­warts, Har­ry, safe and whole, as I had planned and in­tend­ed. Well - not quite whole. You had suf­fered. I knew you would when I left you on your aunt and un­cle's doorstep. I knew I was con­demn­ing you to ten dark and dif­fi­cult years.'

He paused. Har­ry said noth­ing.

`You might ask - and with good rea­son - why it had to be so. Why could some wiz­ard­ing fam­ily not have tak­en you in? Many would have done so more than glad­ly, would have been hon­oured and de­light­ed to raise you as a son.

`My an­swer is that my pri­or­ity was to keep you alive. You were in more dan­ger than per­haps any­one but I re­alised. Volde­mort had been van­quished hours be­fore, but his sup­port­ers - and many of them are al­most as ter­ri­ble as he - were still at large, an­gry, des­per­ate and vi­olent. And I had to make my de­ci­sion, too, with re­gard to the years ahead. Did I be­lieve that Volde­mort was gone for ev­er? No. I knew not whether it would be ten, twen­ty or fifty years be­fore he re­turned, but I was sure he would do so, and I was sure, too, know­ing him as I have done, that he would not rest un­til he killed you.

`I knew that Volde­mort's knowl­edge of mag­ic is per­haps more ex­ten­sive than any wiz­ard alive. I knew that even my most com­plex and pow­er­ful pro­tec­tive spells and charms were un­like­ly to be in­vin­ci­ble if he ev­er re­turned to full pow­er.

`But I knew, too, where Volde­mort was weak. And so I made my de­ci­sion. You would be pro­tect­ed by an an­cient mag­ic of which he knows, which he de­spis­es, and which he has al­ways, there­fore, un­der­es­ti­mat­ed - to his cost. I am speak­ing, of course, of the fact that your moth­er died to save you. She gave you a lin­ger­ing pro­tec­tion he nev­er ex­pect­ed, a pro­tec­tion that flows in your veins to this day. I put my trust, there­fore, in your moth­er's blood. I de­liv­ered you to her sis­ter, her on­ly re­main­ing rel­ative.'

`She doesn't love me,' said Har­ry at once. `She doesn't give a damn -

`But she took you,' Dum­ble­dore cut across him. `She may have tak­en you grudg­ing­ly, fu­ri­ous­ly, un­will­ing­ly, bit­ter­ly, yet still she took you, and in do­ing so, she sealed the charm I placed up­on you. Your moth­er's sac­ri­fice made the bond of blood the strongest shield I could give you.'

`I still don't =

`While you can still call home the place where your moth­er's blood dwells, there you can­not be touched or harmed by Volde­mort. He shed her blood, but it lives on in you and her sis­ter. Her blood be­came your refuge. You need re­turn there on­ly once a year, but as long as you can still call it home, whilst you are there he can­not hurt you. Your aunt knows this. I ex­plained what I had done in the let­ter I left, with you, on her doorstep. She knows that al­low­ing you house­room may well have kept you alive for the past fif­teen years.'

`Wait,' said Har­ry. `Wait a mo­ment.'

He sat up straighter in his chair, star­ing at Dum­ble­dore.

`You sent that Howler. You told her to re­mem­ber - it was your voice -

`I thought,' said Dum­ble­dore, in­clin­ing his head slight­ly, `that she might need re­mind­ing of the pact she had sealed by tak­ing you. I sus­pect­ed the De­men­tor at­tack might have awo­ken her to the dan­gers of hav­ing you as a sur­ro­gate son.'

`It did,' said Har­ry qui­et­ly. `Well - my un­cle more than her. He want­ed to chuck me out, but af­ter the Howler came she - she said I had to stay'

He stared at the floor for a mo­ment, then said, `But what's this got to do with =

He could not say Si­nus's name.

`Five years ago, then,' con­tin­ued Dum­ble­dore, as though he had not paused in his sto­ry, `you ar­rived at Hog­warts, nei­ther as hap­py nor as well-​nour­ished as I would have liked, per­haps, yet alive and healthy You were not a pam­pered lit­tle prince, but as nor­mal a boy as I could have hoped un­der the cir­cum­stances. Thus far, my plan was work­ing well.

`And then … well, you will re­mem­ber the events of your first year at Hog­warts quite as clear­ly as I do. You rose mag­nif­icent­ly to the chal­lenge that faced you and soon­er - much soon­er - than I had an­tic­ipat­ed, you found your­self face to face with Volde­mort. You sur­vived again. You did more. You de­layed his re­turn to full pow­er and strength. You fought a man's fight. I was … proud­er of you than I can say.

`Yet there was a flaw in this won­der­ful plan of mine,' said Dum­ble­dore. `An ob­vi­ous flaw that I knew, even then, might be the un­do­ing of it all. And yet, know­ing how im­por­tant it was that my plan should suc­ceed, I told my­self that I would not per­mit this flaw to ru­in it. I alone could pre­vent this, so I alone must be strong. And here was my first test, as you lay in the hos­pi­tal wing, weak from your strug­gle with Volde­mort.'

`I don't un­der­stand what you're say­ing,' said Har­ry.

`Don't you re­mem­ber ask­ing me, as you lay in the hos­pi­tal wing, why Volde­mort had tried to kill you when you were a ba­by?'

Har­ry nod­ded.

`Ought I to have told you then?'

Har­ry stared in­to the blue eyes and said noth­ing, but his heart was rac­ing again.

`You do not see the flaw in the plan yet? No … per­haps not. Well, as you know, I de­cid­ed not to an­swer you. Eleven, I told my­self, was much too young to know. I had nev­er in­tend­ed to tell you when you were eleven. The knowl­edge would be too much at such a young age.

`I should have recog­nised the dan­ger signs then. I should have asked my­self why I did not feel more dis­turbed that you had al­ready asked me the ques­tion to which I knew, one day, I must give a ter­ri­ble an­swer. I should have recog­nised that I was too hap­py to think that I did not have to do it on that par­tic­ular day … YOU were too young, much too young.

`And so we en­tered your sec­ond year at Hog­warts. And once again you met chal­lenges even grown wiz­ards have nev­er faced: once again you ac­quit­ted your­self be­yond my wildest dreams. You did not ask me again, how­ev­er, why Volde­mort had left that marl; on you. We dis­cussed your scar, oh yes … we came very, very

close to the sub­ject. Why did I not tell you ev­ery­thing?

`Well, it seemed to me that twelve was, af­ter all, hard­ly bet­ter than eleven to re­ceive such in­for­ma­tion. I al­lowed you to leave my pres­ence, blood­stained, ex­haust­ed but ex­hil­arat­ed, and if I felt a twinge of un­ease that I ought, per­haps, to have told you then, it was swift­ly si­lenced. You were still so young, you see, and I could not find it in my­self to spoil that night of tri­umph …

`Do you see, Har­ry? Do you see the flaw in my bril­liant plan now? I had fall­en in­to the trap I had fore­seen, that I had told my­self I could avoid, that I must avoid.'

`I don't -

`I cared about you toy much,' said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply. `I cared more for your hap­pi­ness than your know­ing the truth, more for your peace of mind than my plan, more for your life than the lives that might be lost if the plan failed. In oth­er words, I act­ed ex­act­ly as Volde­mort ex­pects we fools who love to act.

`Is there a de­fence? I de­fy any­one who has watched you as I have - and I have watched you more close­ly than you can have imag­ined - not to want to save you more pain than you had al­ready suf­fered. What did I care if num­bers of name­less and face­less peo­ple and crea­tures were slaugh­tered in the vague fu­ture, if in the here and now you were alive, and well, and hap­py? I nev­er dreamed that I would have such a per­son on my hands.

`We en­tered your third year. I watched from afar as you strug­gled to re­pel De­men­tors, as you found Sir­ius, learned what he was and res­cued him. Was I to tell you then, at the mo­ment when you had tri­umphant­ly snatched your god­fa­ther from the jaws of the Min­istry? But now, at the age of thir­teen, my ex­cus­es were run­ning out. Young you might be, but you had proved you were ex­cep­tion­al. My con­science was un­easy, Har­ry. I knew the time must come soon …

`But you came out of the maze last year, hav­ing watched Cedric Dig­gory die, hav­ing es­caped death so nar­row­ly your­self … and I did not tell you, though I knew, now Volde­mort had re­turned, I must do it soon. And now, tonight, I know you have long been ready for the knowl­edge I have kept from you for so long, be­cause you have proved that I should have placed the bur­den up­on you

be­fore this. My on­ly de­fence is this: I have watched you strug­gling un­der more bur­dens than any stu­dent who has ev­er passed through this school and I could not bring my­self to add an­oth­er - the great­est one of all.'

Har­ry wait­ed, but Dum­ble­dore did not speak.

`I still don't un­der­stand.'

`Volde­mort tried to kill you when you were a child be­cause of a prophe­cy made short­ly be­fore your birth. He knew the prophe­cy had been made, though he did not know its full con­tents. He set out to kill you when you were still a ba­by, be­liev­ing he was ful­fill­ing the terms of the prophe­cy. He dis­cov­ered, to his cost, that he was mis­tak­en, when the curse in­tend­ed to kill you back­fired. And so, since his re­turn to his body, and par­tic­ular­ly since your ex­traor­di­nary es­cape from him last year, he has been de­ter­mined to hear that prophe­cy in its en­tire­ty. This is the weapon he has been seek­ing so as­sid­uous­ly since his re­turn: the knowl­edge of how to de­stroy you.'

The sun had risen ful­ly now: Dum­ble­dore's of­fice was bathed in it. The glass case in which the sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or resid­ed gleamed white and opaque, the frag­ments of the in­stru­ments Har­ry had thrown to the floor glis­tened like rain­drops, and be­hind him, the ba­by Fawkes made soft chirrup­ing nois­es in his nest of ash­es.

`The prophe­cy's smashed,' Har­ry said blankly. `I was pulling Neville up those bench­es in the - the room where the arch­way was, and I ripped his robes and it fell …'

`The thing that smashed was mere­ly the record of the prophe­cy kept by the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies. But the prophe­cy was made to some­body, and that per­son has the means of re­call­ing it per­fect­ly'

`Who heard it?' asked Har­ry, though he thought he knew the an­swer al­ready

`I did,' said Dum­ble­dore. `On a cold, wet night six­teen years ago, in a room above the bar at the Hog's Head inn. I had gone there to see an ap­pli­cant for the post of Div­ina­tion teach­er, though it was against my in­cli­na­tion to al­low the sub­ject of Div­ina­tion to con­tin­ue at all. The ap­pli­cant, how­ev­er, was the great-​great-​grand­daugh­ter of a very fa­mous, very gift­ed Seer and I thought it com­mon po­lite­ness to meet her. I was dis­ap­point­ed. It seemed to me that she had not

a trace of the gift her­self. I told her, cour­te­ous­ly I hope, that I did not think she would be suit­able for the post. I turned to leave.'

Dum­ble­dore got to his feet and walked past Har­ry to the black cab­inet that stood be­side Fawkes's perch. He bent down, slid back a catch and took from in­side it the shal­low stone basin, carved with runes around the edges, in which Har­ry had seen his fa­ther tor­ment­ing Snape. Dum­ble­dore walked back to the desk, placed the Pen­sieve up­on it, and raised his wand to his own tem­ple. From it, he with­drew sil­very, gos­samer-​fine strands of thought cling­ing to the wand and de­posit­ed them in­to the basin. He sat back down be­hind his desk and watched his thoughts swirl and drift in­side the Pen­sieve for a mo­ment. Then, with a sigh, he raised his wand and prod­ded the sil­very sub­stance with its tip.

A fig­ure rose out of it, draped in shawls, her eyes mag­ni­fied to

enor­mous size be­hind her glass­es, and she re­volved slow­ly; her feet in the basin. But when Sybill Trelawney spoke, it was not in her usu­al ethe­re­al, mys­tic voice, but in the harsh, hoarse tones Har­ry had heard her use once be­fore:

`The one with the pow­er to van­quish th'e- Dark Lord ap­proach­es… born to those who have thrice de­fied him, born as the sev­enth month dies … and the Dark Lord will mark him as his equal, but he will havc

pow­er the Dark Lord knows not … and ei­ther must die at the hand of the oth­er for nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives … the one with the pow­er to van­quish the Dark Lord will be born as the sev­enth month dies …'

The slow­ly re­volv­ing Pro­fes­sor Trelawney sank back in­to the sil­ver mass be­low and van­ished.

The si­lence with­in the of­fice was ab­so­lute. Nei­ther Dum­ble­dore nor Har­ry nor any of the por­traits made a sound. Even Fawkes had fall­en silent.

`Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore?' Har­ry said very qui­et­ly, for Dum­ble­dore, still star­ing at the Pen­sieve, seemed com­plete­ly lost in thought. It .. did that mean … what did that mean?T

'It meant,' said Dum­ble­dore, `that the per­son who has the on­ly chance of con­quer­ing Lord Volde­mort for good was born at the end of Ju­ly, near­ly six­teen years ago. This boy would be born to par­ents who had al­ready de­fied Volde­mort three times.'

Har­ry felt as though some­thing was clos­ing in on him. His breath­ing seemed dif­fi­cult again.

`It means - me?'

Dum­ble­dore sur­veyed him for a mo­ment through his glass­es.

`The odd thing, Har­ry,' he said soft­ly, `is that it may not have meant you at all. Sybill's prophe­cy could have ap­plied to two wiz­ard boys, both born at the end of Ju­ly that year, both of whom had par­ents in the Or­der of the Phoenix, both sets of par­ents hav­ing nar­row­ly es­caped Volde­mort three times. One, of course, was you. The oth­er was Neville Long­bot­tom.'

`But then … but then, why was it my name on the prophe­cy and not Neville's?'

`The of­fi­cial record was re-​la­belled af­ter Volde­mort's at­tack on you as a child,' said Dum­ble­dore. `It seemed plain to the keep­er of the Hall of Prophe­cy that Volde­mort could on­ly have tried to kill you be­cause he knew you to be the one to whom Sybill was re­fer­ring.'

`Then - it might not be me?' said Har­ry

`I am afraid,' said Dum­ble­dore slow­ly, look­ing as though ev­ery word cost him a great ef­fort, `that there is no doubt that it is you.

`But you said - Neville was born at the end of Ju­ly, too - and his mum and dad =

`You are for­get­ting the next part of the prophe­cy, the fi­nal iden­ti­fy­ing fea­ture of the boy who could van­quish Volde­mort … Volde­mort him­self would mark him as his equal. And so he did, Har­ry He chose you, not Neville. He gave you the scar that has proved both bless­ing and curse.'

`But he might have cho­sen wrong!' said Har­ry. `He might have marked the wrong per­son!'

`He chose the boy he thought most like­ly to be a dan­ger to him,' said Dum­ble­dore. `And no­tice this, Har­ry: he chose, not the pure­blood (which, ac­cord­ing to his creed, is the on­ly kind of wiz­ard worth be­ing or know­ing) but the half-​blood, like him­self. He saw him­self in you be­fore he had ev­er seen you, and in mark­ing you with that scar, he did not kill you, as he in­tend­ed, but gave you pow­ers, and a fu­ture, which have fit­ted you to es­cape him not once, but four times so far - some­thing that nei­ther your par­ents, nor Neville's par­ents, ev­er achieved.'

`Why did he do it, then?' said Har­ry, who felt numb and cold. `Why did he try and kill me as a ba­by? He should have wait­ed to see whether Neville or I looked more dan­ger­ous when we were old­er and tried to kill who­ev­er it was then =

`That might, in­deed, have been the more prac­ti­cal course,' said Dum­ble­dore, `ex­cept that Volde­mort's in­for­ma­tion about the prophe­cy was in­com­plete. The Hog's Head inn, which Sybill chose for its cheap­ness, has long at­tract­ed, shall we say, a more in­ter­est­ing clien­tele than the Three Broom­sticks. As you and your friends found out to your cost, and I to mine that night, it is a place where it is nev­er safe to as­surpe you are not be­ing over­heard. Of course, I had not dreamed, when I set out to meet Sybill Trelawney, that I would hear any­thing worth over­hear­ing. My - our - one stroke of good for­tune was that the eaves­drop­per was de­tect­ed on­ly a short way in­to the prophe­cy and thrown from the build­ing.'

`So he on­ly heard -?T

'He heard on­ly the be­gin­ning, the part fore­telling the birth of a boy in Ju­ly to par­ents who had thrice de­fied Volde­mort. Con­se­quent­ly, he could not warn his mas­ter that to at­tack you would be to risk trans­fer­ring pow­er to you, and mark­ing you as his equal. So Volde­mort nev­er knew that there might be dan­ger in at­tack­ing you, that it might be wise to wait, to learn more. He did not know that you would have pow­er the Dark Lord knows not =

`But I don't!' said Har­ry, in a stran­gled voice. `I haven't any pow­ers he hasn't got, I couldn't fight the way he did tonight, I can't pos­sess peo­ple or - or kill them -'

`There is a room in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies,' in­ter­rupt­ed Dum­ble­dore, `that is kept locked at all times. It con­tains a force that is at once more won­der­ful and more ter­ri­ble than death, than hu­man in­tel­li­gence, than the forces of na­ture. It is al­so, per­haps, the most mys­te­ri­ous of the many sub­jects for study that re­side there. It is the pow­er held with­in that room that you pos­sess in such quan­ti­ties and which Volde­mort has not at all. That pow­er took you to save Sir­ius tonight. That pow­er al­so saved you from pos­ses­sion by Volde­mort, be­cause he could not bear to re­side in a body so full of the force he de­tests. In the end, it mat­tered not that you could not close your mind. It was your heart that saved you.'

Har­ry closed his eyes. If he had not gone to save Sir­ius, Sir­ius would not have died… More to stave off the mo­ment when he would have to think of Sir­ius again, Har­ry asked, with­out car­ing much about the an­swer, `The end of the prophe­cy… it was some­thing about… nei­ther can live…'

`… while the oth­er sur­vives,' said Dum­ble­dore.

`So,' said Har­ry, dredg­ing up the words from what felt like a deep well of de­spair in­side him, `so does that mean that… that one of us has got to kill the oth­er one… in the end?'

`Yes,' said Dum­ble­dore.

For a long time, nei­ther of them spoke. Some­where far be­yond the of­fice walls, Har­ry could hear the sound of voic­es, stu­dents head­ing down to the Great Hall for an ear­ly break­fast, per­haps. It seemed im­pos­si­ble that there could be peo­ple in the world who still de­sired food, who laughed, who nei­ther knew nor cared that Sir­ius Black was gone for ev­er. Sir­ius seemed a mil­lion miles away al­ready; even now a part of Har­ry still be­lieved that if he had on­ly pulled back that veil, he would have found Sir­ius look­ing back at him, greet­ing him, per­haps, with his laugh like a bark…

`I feel I owe you an­oth­er ex­pla­na­tion, Har­ry,' said Dum­ble­dore hes­itant­ly. `You may, per­haps, have won­dered why I nev­er chose you as a pre­fect? I must con­fess… that I rather thought… you had enough re­spon­si­bil­ity to be go­ing on with.'

Har­ry looked up at him and saw a tear trick­ling down Dum­ble­dore's face in­to his long sil­ver beard





Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix





Chapter 38 - The Second War Begins




HE WHO MUST NOT BE NAMED RE­TURNS



`In a brief state­ment on Fri­day night, Min­is­ter for Mag­ic Cor­nelius Fudge con­firmed that He Who Must Not Be Named has re­turned to this coun­try and is once more ac­tive.

“`It is with great re­gret that I must con­firm that the wiz­ard styling him­self Lord - well, you know who I mean - is alive and among us again,” said Fudge, look­ing tired and flus­tered as he ad­dressed re­porters. "It is with al­most equal re­gret that we re­port the mass re­volt of the De­men­tors of Azk­aban, who have shown them­selves averse to con­tin­uing in the Min­istry's em­ploy. We be­lieve the De­men­tors are cur­rent­ly tak­ing di­rec­tion from Lord - Thingy.

“`We urge the mag­ical pop­ula­tion to re­main vig­ilant. The Min­istry is cur­rent­ly pub­lish­ing guides to el­emen­tary home and per­son­al de­fence which will be de­liv­ered free to all wiz­ard­ing homes with­in the com­ing month. ”

`The Min­is­ter's state­ment was met with dis­may and alarm from the wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty, which as re­cent­ly as last Wednes­day was re­ceiv­ing Min­istry as­sur­ances that there was “no truth what­so­ev­er in these per­sis­tent ru­mours that You-​Know-​Who is op­er­at­ing amongst us once more”.

`De­tails of the events that led to the Min­istry turnaround are still hazy, though it is be­lieved that He Who Must Not Be Named and a se­lect band of fol­low­ers (known as Death Eaters) gained en­try to the Min­istry of Mag­ic it­self on Thurs­day evening.

'Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, new­ly re­in­stat­ed Head­mas­ter of Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry, re­in­stat­ed mem­ber of the In­ter­na­tion­al Con­fed­er­ation of Wiz­ards and re­in­stat­ed Chief War­lock of the Wiz­eng­amot, has so far been un­avail­able for com

ment. He has in­sist­ed over the past year that You-​Know-​Who is

not dead, as was wide­ly hoped and be­lieved, but is re­cruit­ing fol

low­ers once more for afresh at­tempt to seize pow­er. Mean­while,

the “Boy Who Lived” -

`There you are, Har­ry, I knew they'd drag you in­to it some­how,' said Hermione, look­ing over the top of the pa­per at him.

They were in the hos­pi­tal wing. Har­ry was sit­ting on the end of Ron's bed and they were both lis­ten­ing to Hermione read the front page of the Sun­day Prophet. Gin­ny, whose an­kle had been mend­ed in a trice by Madam Pom­frey, was curled up at the foot of Hermione's bed; Neville, whose nose had like­wise been re­turned to its nor­mal size and shape, was in a chair be­tween the two beds; and Lu­na, who had dropped in to vis­it, clutch­ing the lat­est edi­tion of The Quib­bler, was read­ing the mag­azine up­side-​down and ap­par­ent­ly not tak­ing in a word Hermione was say­ing.

`He's the “boy who lived” again now, though, isn't he?' said Ron dark­ly. `Not such a de­lud­ed show-​off any more, eh?'

He helped him­self to a hand­ful of Choco­late Frogs from the im­mense pile on his bed­side cab­inet, threw a few to Har­ry, Gin­ny and Neville and ripped off the wrap­per of his own with his teeth. There were still deep welts on his fore­arms where the brain's ten­ta­cles had wrapped around him. Ac­cord­ing to Madam Pom­frey, thoughts could leave deep­er scar­ring than al­most any­thing else, though since she had start­ed ap­ply­ing co­pi­ous amounts of Dr Ub­bly's Obliv­ious Unc­tion there seemed to have been some im­prove­ment.

`Yes, they're very com­pli­men­ta­ry about you now, Har­ry,' said Hermione, scan­ning down the ar­ti­cle. “`A lone voice of truth… per­ceived as un­bal­anced, yet nev­er wa­vered in his sto­ry… forced to bear ridicule and slan­der… ” H mmm,' she said, frown­ing, `I no­tice they don't men­tion the fact that it was them do­ing all the ridi­cul­ing and slan­der­ing in the Prophet…'

She winced slight­ly and put a hand to her ribs. The curse Dolo­hov had used on her, though less ef­fec­tive than it would have been had he been able to say the in­can­ta­tion aloud, had nev­er­the­less caused, in Madam Pom­frey's words, `quite enough dam­age

to be go­ing on with'. Hermione was hav­ing to take ten dif­fer­ent types of po­tion ev­ery day, was im­prov­ing great­ly, and was al­ready bored with the hos­pi­tal wing.

`You-​Know-​Who's Last At­tempt to Take Over, pages two to four, What the Min­istry Should Have Told Us, page five, Why No­body Lis­tened to Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, pages six to eight, Ex­clu­sive In­ter­view with Har­ry Pot­ter, page nine… Well,' said Hermione, fold­ing up the news­pa­per and throw­ing it aside, `it's cer­tain­ly giv­en them lots to write about. And that in­ter­view with Har­ry isn't ex­clu­sive, it's the one that was in The Quib­bler months ago…'

`Dad­dy sold it to them,' said Lu­na vague­ly, turn­ing a page of The Quib­bler. `He got a very good price for it, too, so we're go­ing to go on an ex­pe­di­tion to Swe­den this sum­mer to see if we can catch a Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack.'

Hermione seemed to strug­gle with her­self for a mo­ment, then said, `That sounds love­ly'

Gin­ny caught Har­ry's eye and looked away quick­ly, grin­ning.

`So, any­way,' said Hermione, sit­ting up a lit­tle straighter and winc­ing again, `what's go­ing on in school?T

'Well, Flitwick's got rid of Fred and George's swamp,' said Gin­ny, `he did it in about three sec­onds. But he left a tiny patch un­der the win­dow and he's roped it off =

Why?' said Hermione, look­ing star­tled.

`Oh, he just says it was a re­al­ly good bit of mag­ic,' said Gin­ny, shrug­ging.

`I think he left it as a mon­ument to Fred and George,' said Ron, through a mouth­ful of choco­late. `They sent me all these, you know,' he told Har­ry, point­ing at the small moun­tain of Frogs be­side him. `Must be do­ing all right out of that joke shop, eh?'

Hermione looked rather dis­ap­prov­ing and asked, `So has all the trou­ble stopped now Dum­ble­dore's back?'

`Yes,' said Neville, `ev­ery­thing's set­tled right back to nor­mal.'

`I's'pose Filch is hap­py, is he?' asked Ron, prop­ping a Choco­late Frog Card fea­tur­ing Dum­ble­dore against his wa­ter jug.

`Not at all,' said Gin­ny `He's re­al­ly, re­al­ly mis­er­able, ac­tu­al­ly…' She low­ered her voice to a whis­per. `He keeps say­ing Um­bridge was the best thing that ev­er hap­pened to Hog­warts…

All six of them looked around. Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge was ly­ing in a bed op­po­site them, gaz­ing up at the ceil­ing. Dum­ble­dore had strode alone in­to the For­est to res­cue her from the cen­taurs; how he had done it - how he had emerged from the trees sup­port­ing Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge with­out so much as a scratch on him - no­body knew, and Um­bridge was cer­tain­ly not telling. Since she had re­turned to the cas­tle she had not, as far as any of them knew, ut­tered a sin­gle word. No­body re­al­ly knew what was wrong with her, ei­ther. Her usu­al­ly neat mousy hair was very un­tidy and there were still bits of twigs and leaves in it, but oth­er­wise she seemed to be quite un­scathed.

`Madam Pom­frey says she's just in shock,' whis­pered Hermione.

`Sulk­ing, more like,' said Gin­ny

`Yeah, she shows signs of life if you do this,' said Ron, and with his tongue he made soft clip-​clop­ping nois­es. Um­bridge sat bolt up­right, look­ing around wild­ly.

`Any­thing wrong, Pro­fes­sor?' called Madam Pom­frey, pok­ing her head around her of­fice door.

`No… no…' said Um­bridge, sink­ing back in­to her pil­lows. `No, I must have been dream­ing…'

Hermione and Gin­ny muf­fled their laugh­ter in the bed­clothes.

`Speak­ing of cen­taurs,' said Hermione, when she had re­cov­ered a lit­tle, `who's Div­ina­tion teach­er now? Is Firen­ze stay­ing?'

`He's got to,' said Har­ry, `the oth­er cen­taurs won't take him back, will they?'

`It looks like he and Trelawney are both go­ing to teach,' said Gin­ny

`Bet Dum­ble­dore wish­es he could've got rid of Trelawney for good,' said Ron, now munch­ing on his four­teenth Frog. `Mind you, the whole sub­ject's use­less if you ask me, Firen­ze isn't a lot bet­ter…'

`How can you say that?' Hermione de­mand­ed. `Af­ter we've just found out that there are re­al prophe­cies?'

Har­ry's heart be­gan to race. He had not told Ron, Hermione or any­one else what the prophe­cy had con­tained. Neville had told them it had smashed while Har­ry was pulling him up the steps in the Death Room and Har­ry had not yet cor­rect­ed this im­pres­sion. He was not ready to see their ex­pres­sions when he told them

that he must be ei­ther mur­der­er or vic­tim, there was no oth­er way…

`It is a pity it broke,' said Hermione qui­et­ly, shak­ing her head.

`Yeah, it is,' said Ron. `Still, at least You-​Know-​Who nev­er found out what was in it ei­ther - where are you go­ing?' he added, look­ing both sur­prised and dis­ap­point­ed as Har­ry stood up.

`Er - Ha­grid's,' said Har­ry. `You know, he just got back and I promised I'd go down and see him and tell him how you two are.'

`Oh, all right then,' said Ron grumpi­ly, look­ing out of the dor­mi­to­ry win­dow at the patch of bright blue sky be­yond. `Wish we could come.'

`Say hel­lo to him fir us!' called Hermione, as Har­ry pro­ceed­ed down the ward. `And ask him what's hap­pen­ing about… about his lit­tle friend!'

Har­ry gave a wave of his hand to show he had heard and un­der­stood as he left the dor­mi­to­ry.

The cas­tle seemed very qui­et even for a Sun­day. Ev­ery­body was clear­ly out in the sun­ny grounds, en­joy­ing the end of their ex­ams and the prospect of a last few days of term un­ham­pered by re­vi­sion or home­work. Har­ry walked slow­ly along the de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor, peer­ing out of win­dows as he went; he could see peo­ple mess­ing around in the air over the Quid­ditch pitch and a cou­ple of stu­dents swim­ming in the lake, ac­com­pa­nied by the gi­ant squid.

He was find­ing it hard to de­cide whether he want­ed to be with peo­ple or not; when­ev­er he was in com­pa­ny he want­ed to get away and when­ev­er he was alone he want­ed com­pa­ny. He thought he might re­al­ly go and vis­it Ha­grid, though, as he had not talked to him prop­er­ly since he'd re­turned…

Har­ry had just de­scend­ed the last mar­ble step in­to the En­trance Hall when Mal­loy, Crabbe and Goyle emerged from a door on the right that Har­ry knew led down to the Slytherin com­mon room. Har­ry stopped dead; so did Mal­foy and the oth­ers. The on­ly sounds were the shouts, laugh­ter and splash­es drift­ing in­to the Hall from the grounds through the open front doors.

Mal­foy glanced around - Har­ry knew he was check­ing for signs of teach­ers - then he looked back at Har­ry and said in a low voice, `You're dead, Pot­ter.'

Har­ry raised his eye­brows.

Fun­ny' he said, `you'd think I'd have stopped walk­ing around…'

Mal­loy looked an­gri­er than Har­ry had ev­er seen him; he felt a kind of de­tached sat­is­fac­tion at the sight of his pale, point­ed face con­tort­ed with rage.

'You're go­ing to pay,' said Mal­loy in a voice bare­ly loud­er than a whis­per. `I'm go­ing to make you pay for what you've done to my fa­ther…'

`Well, I'm ter­ri­fied now,' said Har­ry sar­cas­ti­cal­ly. `I's'pose Lord Volde­mort's just a warm-​up act com­pared to you three - what's the mat­ter?' he added, for Mal­foy Crabbe and Goyle had all looked strick­en at the sound of the name. `He's a mate of your dad, isn't he? Not scared of him, are you?T

'You think you're such a big man, Pot­ter,' said Mal­foy, ad­vanc­ing now, Crabbe and Goyle flank­ing him. `You wait. I'll have you. You can't land my fa­ther in prison =

`I thought I just had,' said Har­ry.

`The De­men­tors have left Azk­aban,' said Mal­foy qui­et­ly. `Dad and the oth­ers'll be out in no time…'

`Yeah, I ex­pect they will,' said Har­ry `Still, at least ev­ery­one knows what scum­bags they are now =

Mal­foy's hand flew to­wards his wand, but Har­ry was too quick for him; he had drawn his own wand be­fore Mal­foy's fin­gers had even en­tered the pock­et of his robes.

`Pot­ter!'

The voice rang across the En­trance Hall. Snape had emerged from the stair­case lead­ing down to his of­fice and at the sight of him Har­ry felt a great rush of ha­tred be­yond any­thing he felt to­wards Mal­loy… what­ev­er Dum­ble­dore said, he would nev­er for­give Snape… nev­er…

`What are you do­ing, Pot­ter?' said Snape, as cold­ly as ev­er, as he strode over to the four of them.

'1'm try­ing to de­cide what curse to use on Mal­loy, sir,' said Har­ry fierce­ly.

Snape stared at him.

`Put that wand away at once,' he said curt­ly. `Ten points from Gryff-'

Snape looked to­wards the gi­ant hour-​glass­es on the walls and gave a sneer­ing smile.

`Ah. I see there are no longer any points left in the Gryffind­or hour-​glass to take away. In that case, Pot­ter, we will sim­ply have to -

`Add some more?'

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had just stumped up the stone steps in­to the cas­tle; she was car­ry­ing a tar­tan car­pet­bag in one hand and lean­ing heav­ily on a walk­ing stick with her oth­er, but oth­er­wise looked quite well.

`Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall!' said Snape, strid­ing for­wards. `Out of St Mun­go's, I see!'

`Yes, Pro­fes­sor Snape,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, shrug­ging off her trav­el­ling cloak, `I'm quite as good as new. You two - Crabbe - Goyle =

She beck­oned them for­wards im­pe­ri­ous­ly and they came, shuf­fling their large feet and look­ing awk­ward.

`Here,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, thrust­ing her car­pet­bag in­to Crabbe's chest and her cloak in­to Goyle's; `take these up to my of­fice for me.'

They turned and stumped away up the mar­ble stair­case.

`Right then,' said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, look­ing up at the hour­glass­es on the wall. `Well, I think Pot­ter and his friends ought to have fifty points apiece for alert­ing the world to the re­turn of YouKnow-​Who! What say you, Pro­fes­sor Snape?'

What?' snapped Snape, though Har­ry knew he had heard per­fect­ly well. `Oh - well - I sup­pose…'

`So that's fifty each for Pot­ter, the two Weasleys, Long­bot­tom and Miss Granger,' said Pro­fes­sor Mc­Gana­gall, and a show­er of ru­bies fell down in­to the bot­tom bulb of Gryffind­or's hour-​glass as she spoke. `Oh - and fifty for Miss Love­good, I sup­pose,' she added, and a num­ber of sap­phires fell in­to Raven­claw's glass. `Now, you want­ed to take ten from Mr Pot­ter, I think, Pro­fes­sor Snape - so there we are…'

A few ru­bies re­treat­ed in­to the up­per bulb, leav­ing a re­spectable amount be­low nev­er­the­less.

`Well, Pot­ter, Mal­loy I think you ought to be out­side on a

752

HAR­RY POT­TER

glo­ri­ous day like this,' Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall con­tin­ued briskly.

Har­ry did not need telling twice- he thrust his wand back in­side his robes and head­ed straight for the front doors with­out an­oth­er glance at Snape and Mal­foy.

The hot sun hit him with a blast as he walked across the lawns to­wards Ha­grid'scab­in. Stu­dents ly­ing around on the grass sun­bathing, talk­ing, read­ing the Sun­day Prophet and eat­ing sweets, looked up at him as he passed; some called out to him, or else waved, clear­ly ea­ger to show that they, like the Prophet, had de­cid­ed he was some­thing of a hero. Har­ry said noth­ing to any of them. He had no idea how much they knew of what had hap­pened three days ago, but he had so far avoid­ed be­ing ques­tioned and pre­ferred to keep it that way.

He thought at first when he knocked on Ha­grid's cab­in door that he was out, but then Fang came charg­ing around the cor­ner and al­most bowled him over with the en­thu­si­asm of his wel­come. Ha­grid, it tran­spired, was pick­ing run­ner beans in his back gar­den.

`All righ', Har­ry!' he said, beam­ing, when Har­ry ap­proached the fence. `Come in, come in, we'll have a cup o' dan­de­lion juice…

`How's things?' Ha­grid asked him, as they set­tled down at his wood­en ta­ble with a glass apiece of iced juice. `Yeh - er - feel­in' all righ', are yeh?'

Har­ry knew from the look of con­cern on Ha­grid's face that he was not re­fer­ring to Har­ry's phys­ical well-​be­ing.

`I'm fine,' Har­ry said quick­ly, be­cause he could not bear to dis­cuss the thing that he knew was in Ha­grid's mind. `So, where're you been?T

'Bin hidin' out in the moun­tains,' said Ha­grid. `Up in a ca`°e, like Sir­ius did when he =

Ha­grid broke off, cleared his throat gruffly, looked at Har­ry, and took a long draught of juice.

`Any­way, back now,' he said fee­bly.

`You -you look bet­ter,' said Har­ry, who was de­ter­mined to keep the con­ver­sa­tion mov­ing away from Sir­ius.

`Wha'?' said Ha­grid, rais­ing a mas­sive hand and feel­ing his face. `Oh - oh yeah. Well, Graw­py's loads bet­ter be­haved now, loads. Seemed right pleased ter see me when I got back, ter tell yeh the

truth. He's a good lad, re­al­ly… I've bin thinkin' abou' tryin' ter find him a la­dy friend, ac­tu­al­ly…'

Har­ry would nor­mal­ly have tried to per­suade Ha­grid out of this idea at once; the prospect of a sec­ond gi­ant tak­ing up res­idence in the For­est, pos­si­bly even wilder and more bru­tal than Grawp, was pos­itive­ly alarm­ing, but some­how Har­ry could not muster the en­er­gy nec­es­sary to ar­gue the point. He was start­ing to wish he was alone again, and with the idea of has­ten­ing his de­par­ture he took sev­er­al large gulps of his dan­de­lion juice, half-​emp­ty­ing his glass.

`Ev'ry­one knows yeh've bin tellin' the truth now, Har­ry,' said Ha­grid soft­ly and un­ex­pect­ed­ly. He was watch­ing Har­ry close­ly. `Tha's got­ta be bet­ter, hasn' it?'

Har­ry shrugged.

`Look…' Ha­grid leaned to­wards him across the ta­ble, `I knew Sir­ius longer 'n yeh did… he died in bat­tle, an' tha's the way he'd've want­ed ter go =

`He didn't want to go at all!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

Ha­grid bowed his great shag­gy head…

`Nah, I don' reck­on he did,' he said qui­et­ly. `But still, Har­ry… he was nev­er one ter sit aroun' at home an' let oth­er peo­ple do the fight­in'. He couldn've lived with him­self if he hadn' gone ter help =

Har­ry leapt up.

`I've got to go and vis­it Ron and Hermione in the hos­pi­tal wing,' he said me­chan­ical­ly.

`Oh,' said Ha­grid, look­ing rather up­set. `Oh… all righ' then, Har­ry… take care o' yer­self then, an' drop back in if yeh've got a

`Yeah… right…'

Har­ry crossed to the door as fast as he could and pulled it open; he was out in the sun­shine again be­fore Ha­grid had fin­ished say­ing good­bye, and walk­ing away across the lawn. Once again, peo­ple called out to him as he passed. He closed his eyes for a few mo­ments, wish­ing they would all van­ish, that he could open his eyes and find him­self alone in the grounds…

A few days ago, be­fore his ex­ams had fin­ished and he had seen

754 HAR­RY PO-1-1 ER THE SEC­OND WAR BE­GINS 75:

the vi­sion Volde­mort had plant­ed in his mind, he would have giv­en al­most any­thing for the wiz­ard­ing world to know he had been telling the truth, for them to be­lieve that Volde­mort was back, and to know that he was nei­ther a liar nor mad. Now, how­ev­er…

He walked a short way around the lake, sat down on its bank, shel­tered from the gaze of passers-​by be­hind a tan­gle of shrubs, and stared out over the gleam­ing wa­ter, think­ing…

Per­haps the rea­son he want­ed to be alone was be­cause he had felt iso­lat­ed from ev­ery­body since his talk with Dum­ble­dore. An in­vis­ible bar­ri­er sep­arat­ed him from the rest of the world. He was - he had al­ways been - a marked man. It was just that he had nev­er re­al­ly un­der­stood what that meant…

And yet sit­ting here on the edge of the lake, with the ter­ri­blc weight of grief drag­ging at him, with the loss of Sir­ius so raw and fresh in­side, he could not muster any great sense of fear. It was sun­ny, and the grounds around him were full of laugh­ing peo­ple, and even though he felt as dis­tant from them as though he be­longed to a dif­fer­ent race, it was still very hard to be­lieve as he sat here that his life must in­clude, or end in, mur­der…

He sat there for a long time, gaz­ing out at the wa­ter, try­ing not to think about his god­fa­ther or to re­mem­ber that it was di­rectl't across from here, on the op­po­site bank, that Sir­ius had once col­lapsed try­ing to fend off a hun­dred De­men­tors…

The sun had set be­fore he re­alised he was cold. He got up and re­turned to the cas­tle, wip­ing his face on his sleeve as he went.

Ron and Hermione left the hos­pi­tal wing com­plete­ly cured three days be­fore the end of term. Hermione kept show­ing signs of want­ing to talk about Sir­ius, but Ron tend­ed to make `hush­ing nois­es ev­ery time she men­tioned his name. Har­ry was still not sure whether or not he want­ed to talk about his god­fa­ther yet; his wish­es var­ied with his mood. He knew one thing, though: un­hap­py as he felt at the mo­ment, he would great­ly miss Hog­warts in a few days' time when he was back at num­ber four, Priv­et Drive. Even though he now un­der­stood ex­act­ly why he had to re­turn there ev­ery sum­mer, he did not feel any bet­ter about it. In­deed, he had nev­er dread­ed his re­turn more.

Pro­fes­sor Um­bridge left Hog­warts the day be­fore the end of term. It seemed she had crept out of the hos­pi­tal wing dur­ing din­ner­time, ev­ident­ly hop­ing to de­part un­de­tect­ed, but un­for­tu­nate­ly for her, she met Peeves on the way, who seized his last chance to do as Fred had in­struct­ed, and chased her glee­ful­ly from the premis­es whack­ing her al­ter­nate­ly with a walk­ing stick and a sock full of chalk. Many stu­dents ran out in­to the En­trance Hall to watch her run­ning away down the path and the Heads of Hous­es tried on­ly half-​heart­ed­ly to re­strain them. In­deed, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sank back in­to her chair at the staff ta­ble af­ter a few fee­ble re­mon­strances and was clear­ly heard to ex­press a re­gret that she could not run cheer­ing af­ter Um­bridge her­self, be­cause Peeves had bor­rowed her walk­ing stick.

Their last evening at school ar­rived; most peo­ple had fin­ished pack­ing and were al­ready head­ing down to the end-​of-​term leav­ing feast, but Har­ry had not even start­ed.

`Just do it to­mor­row!' said Ron, who was wait­ing by the door of their dor­mi­to­ry. `Come on, I'm starv­ing.'

`I won't be long… look, you go ahead…'

But when the dor­mi­to­ry door closed be­hind Ron, Har­ry made no ef­fort to speed up his pack­ing. The very last thing he want­ed to do was to at­tend the Leav­ing Feast. He was wor­ried that Dum­ble­dore would make some ref­er­ence to him in his speech. He was sure to men­tion Volde­mort's re­turn; he had talked to them about it last year, af­ter all…

Har­ry pulled some crum­pled robes out of the very bot­tom of his trunk to make way for fold­ed ones and, as he did so, no­ticed a bad­ly wrapped pack­age ly­ing in a cor­ner of it. He could not think what it was do­ing there. He bent down, pulled it out from un­der­neath his train­ers and ex­am­ined it.

He re­alised what it was with­in sec­onds. Sir­ius had giv­en it to him just in­side the front door of num­ber twelve Grim­mauld Place. `Use it if you need me, all right?'

Har­ry sank down on to his bed and un­wrapped the pack­age. Out fell a small, square mir­ror. It looked old; it was cer­tain­ly dirty. Har­ry held it up to his face and saw his own re­flec­tion look­ing back at him

He turned the mir­ror over. There on the re­verse side was a scrib­bled note from Sir­ius.

This is a two-​way mir­ror, I've got the oth­er one of the pair. If you

need to speak to me, just say my name in­to it; you'll ap­pear in

my mir­ror and I'll be able to talk in yours. James and I used to

use them when we were in sep­arate de­ten­tions.

Har­ry's heart be­gan to race. He re­mem­bered see­ing his dead par­ents in the Mir­ror of Erised four years ago. He was go­ing to be able to talk to Sir­ius again, right now, he knew it -

He looked around to make sure there was no­body else there; the dor­mi­to­ry was quite emp­ty. He looked back at the mir­ror, raised it in front of his face with trem­bling hands and said, loud­ly and clear­ly, 'Sir­ius.'

His breath mist­ed the sur­face of the glass. He held the mir­ror even clos­er, ex­cite­ment flood­ing through him, but the eyes blink­ing back at him through the fog were def­inite­ly his own.

He wiped the mir­ror clear again and said, so that ev­ery syl­la­ble rang clear­ly through the room:

'Sir­ius Black!'

Noth­ing hap­pened. The frus­trat­ed face look­ing back out of the mir­ror was still, def­inite­ly, his own…

Sir­ius didn't have his mir­ror on him when he went through the arch­way, said a small voice in Har­ry's head. That's why it's not work­ing…

Har­ry re­mained quite still for a mo­ment, then hurled the mir­ror back in­to the trunk where it shat­tered. He had been con­vinced, for a whole, shin­ing minute, that he was go­ing to see Sir­ius, talk to him again…

Dis­ap­point­ment was burn­ing in his throat; he got up and be­gan throw­ing his things pell-​mell in­to the trunk on top of the bro­ken mir­ror -

But then an idea struck him… a bet­ter idea than a mir­ror… a much big­ger, more im­por­tant idea… how had he nev­er thought of it be­fore - why had he nev­er asked?

He was sprint­ing out of the dor­mi­tor't and down the spi­ral

THE SEC­OND WAR BE­GINS

stair­case. hit­ting the walls as he ran and bare­ly notic­ing; he hur­tled across the emp­ty com­mon room, through the por­trait hole and off along the cor­ri­dor, ig­nor­ing the Fat La­dy, who called af­ter him: `The feast is about to start, you know, you're cut­ting it very fine!'

But Har­ry had no in­ten­tion of go­ing to the feast…

How could it be that the place was full of ghosts when­ev­er you didn't need one, yet now…

He ran down stair­cas­es and along cor­ri­dors and met no­body ei­ther alive or dead. They were all, clear­ly, in the Great Hall. Out­side his Charms class­room he came to a halt, pant­ing and think­ing dis­con­so­late­ly that he would have to wait un­til lat­er, un­til af­ter the end of the feast…

But just as he had giv­en up hope, he saw it - a translu­cent some­body drift­ing across the end of the cor­ri­dor.

`Hey - hey Nick! NICK!'

The ghost stuck its head back out of the wall, re­veal­ing the ex­trav­agant­ly plumed hat and dan­ger­ous­ly wob­bling head of Sir Nicholas de Mim­sy-​Por­ping­ton.

`Good evening,' he said, with­draw­ing the rest of his body from the sol­id stone and smil­ing at Har­ry `I am not the on­ly one who is late, then? Though,' he sighed, `in a rather dif­fer­ent sense, of course…

`Nick, can I ask you some­thing?'

A most pe­cu­liar ex­pres­sion stole over Near­ly Head­less Nick's face as he in­sert­ed a fin­ger in the stiff ruff at his neck and tugged it a lit­tle straighter, ap­par­ent­ly to give him­self think­ing time. He de­sist­ed on­ly when his par­tial­ly sev­ered neck seemed about to give way com­plete­ly.

`Er - now, Har­ry?' said Nick, look­ing dis­com­fit­ed. `Can't it wait un­til af­ter the feast?T

'No - Nick - please,' said Har­ry, `I re­al­ly need to talk to you. Can we go in here?'

Har­ry opened the door of the near­est class­room and Near­ly Head­less Nick sighed.

`Oh, very well,' he said, look­ing re­signed. `I can't pre­tend I haven't been ex­pect­ing it.'

Har­ry was hold­ing the door open for him, but he drift­ed through the wall in­stead.

`Ex­pect­ing what?' Har­ry asked, as he closed the door.

`You to come and find me,' said Nick, now glid­ing over to the win­dow and look­ing out at the dark­en­ing grounds. `It hap­pens, some­times… when some­body has suf­fered a… loss.'

`Well,' said Har­ry, re­fus­ing to be de­flect­ed. `You were right, I've - I've come to find you.'

Nick said noth­ing.

`It's -'said Har­ry, who was find­ing this more awk­ward than he had an­tic­ipat­ed, `it's just - you're dead. But you're still here, aren't you?'

Nick sighed and con­tin­ued to gaze out at the grounds.

`That's right, isn't it?' Har­ry urged him. `You died, but I'm talk­ing to you…you can walk around Hog­warts and ev­ery­thing, can't you?'

'Yes,' said Near­ly Head­less Nick qui­et­ly, `I walk and talk, yes.'

`So, you came back, didn't you?' said Har­ry ur­gent­ly. `Peo­ple can come back, right? As ghosts. They don't have to dis­ap­pear com­plete­ly. Well?' he added im­pa­tient­ly, when Nick con­tin­ued to say noth­ing.

Near­ly Head­less Nick hes­itat­ed, then said, `Not ev­ery­one can come back as a ghost.'

`What d'you mean?' said Har­ry quick­ly

`On­ly… on­ly wiz­ards.'

`Oh,' said Har­ry, and he al­most laughed with re­lief. `Well, that's OK then, the per­son I'm ask­ing about is a wiz­ard. So he can come back, right?'

Nick turned away from the win­dow and looked mourn­ful­ly at Har­ry.

`He won't come back.'

`Who?'

`Si­nus Black,' said Nick.

`But you did!' said Har­ry an­gri­ly. `You came back -you're dead and you didn't dis­ap­pear -'

`Wiz­ards can leave an im­print of them­selves up­on the earth, to walk pale­ly where their liv­ing selves once trod,' said Nick mis­er­ably. `But very few wiz­ards choose that path.'

`Why not?' said Har­ry. `Any­way - it doesn't mat­ter - Sir­ius won't care if it's un­usu­al, he'll come back, I know he will!'

And so strong was his be­lief, Har­ry ac­tu­al­ly turned his head to check the door, sure, for a split sec­ond, that he was go­ing to see Sir­ius, pearly-​white and trans­par­ent but beam­ing, walk­ing through it to­wards him.

`He will not come back,' re­peat­ed Nick. `He will have… gone on.'

`What d'you mean, “gone on”?' said Har­ry quick­ly `Gone on where? Lis­ten - what hap­pens when you die, any­way? Where do you go? Why doesn't ev­ery­one come back? Why isn't this place full of ghosts? Why -?T

'I can­not an­swer,' said Nick.

`You're dead, aren't you?' said Har­ry ex­as­per­at­ed­ly. `Who can an­swer bet­ter than you?T

'I was afraid of death,' said Nick soft­ly. `I chose to re­main be­hind. I some­times won­der whether I oughtn't to have… well, that is nei­ther here nor there… in fact, I am nei­ther here nor there…' He gave a small sad chuck­le. `I know noth­ing of the se­crets of death, Har­ry, for I chose my fee­ble im­ita­tion of life W stead. I be­lieve learned wiz­ards study the mat­ter in the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies -'

`Don't talk to me about that place!' said Har­ry fierce­ly.

`I am sor­ry not to have been more help,' said Nick gen­tly `Well… well, do ex­cuse me… the feast, you know…'

And he left the room, leav­ing Har­ry there alone, gaz­ing blankly at the wall through which Nick had dis­ap­peared.

Har­ry felt al­most as though he had lost his god­fa­ther all over again in los­ing the hope that he might be able to see or speak to him once more. He walked slow­ly and mis­er­ably back up through the emp­ty cas­tle, won­der­ing whether he would ev­er feel cheer­ful again.

He had turned the cor­ner to­wards the Fat La­dy's cor­ri­dor when he saw some­body up ahead fas­ten­ing a note to a board on the wall. A sec­ond glance showed him it was Lu­na. There were no good hid­ing places near­by, she was bound to have heard his foot­steps, and in any case, Har­ry could hard­ly muster the en­er­gy to avoid any­one at the mo­ment.

`Hel­lo,' said Lu­na vague­ly, glanc­ing around at him as she stepped back from the no­tice.

`How come you're not at the feast?' Har­ry asked.

`Well, I've lost most of my pos­ses­sions,' said Lu­na serene­ly. 'Peo­ple take them and hide them, you know. But as it's the last night, I re­al­ly do need them back, so I've been putting up signs.'

She ges­tured to­wards the no­tice­board, up­on which, sure enough, she had pinned a list of all her miss­ing books and clothes, with a plea for their re­turn.

An odd feel­ing rose in Har­ry; an emo­tion quite dif­fer­ent from the anger and grief that had filled him since Sir­ius's death. It was a few mo­ments be­fore he re­alised that he was feel­ing sor­ry for Lu­na.

`How come peo­ple hide your stuff?' he asked her, frown­ing.

`Oh… well…' she shrugged. `I think they think I'm a bit odd, you know. Some peo­ple call me “Loony” Love­good, ac­tu­al­ly.'

Har­ry looked at her and the new feel­ing of pity in­ten­si­fied rather painful­ly.

`That's no rea­son for them to take your things,' he said flat­ly. D'you want help find­ing them?'

'Oh, no,' she said, smil­ing at him. `They'll come back, they al­ways do in the end. It was just that I want­ed to pack tonight. Any­way… why aren't you at the feast?'

Har­ry shrugged. Just didn't feel like it.'

`No,' said Lu­na, ob­serv­ing him with those odd­ly misty, pro­tu­ber­ant eyes. `I don't sup­pose you do. That man the Death Eaters killed was your god­fa­ther, wasn't he? Gin­ny told me.'

Har­ry nod­ded curt­ly, but found that for some rea­son he did not mind Lu­na talk­ing about Sir­ius. He had just re­mem­bered that she, too, could see Thes­trals.

`Have you…' he be­gan. `I mean, who… has any­one you known ev­er died?'

`Yes,' said Lu­na sim­ply, `my moth­er. She was a quite ex­traor­di­nary witch, you know, but she did like to ex­per­iment and one of her spells went rather bad­ly wrong one day. I was nine.'

`I'm sor­ry' Har­ry mum­bled.

'Yes, it was rather hor­ri­ble,' said Lu­na con­ver­sa­tion­al­ly. `I still feel very sad about it some­times. But I've still got Dad. And any­way, it's not as though I'll nev­er see Mum again, is it?'

`Er - isn't it?' said Har­ry un­cer­tain­ly.

She shook her head in dis­be­lief.

`Oh, come on. You heard them, just be­hind the veil, didn't you?'

`You mean…'

`In that room with the arch­way. They were just lurk­ing out of sight, that's all. You heard them.'

They looked at each oth­er. Lu­na was smil­ing slight­ly. Har­ry did not know what to say, or to think; Lu­na be­lieved so many ex­traor­di­nary things… yet he had been sure he had heard voic­es be­hind the veil, too.

`Are you sure you don't want me to help you look for your stuff?' he said.

`Oh, no,' said Lu­na. `No, I think I'll just go down and have some pud­ding and wait for it all to turn up… it al­ways does in the end… well, have a nice hol­iday Har­ry'

`Yeah… yeah, you too.'

She walked away from him and, as he watched her go, he found that the ter­ri­ble weight in his stom­ach- seemed to have less­ened slight­ly.

The jour­ney home on the Hog­warts Ex­press next day was event­ful in sev­er­al ways. First­ly Mal­foy, Crabbe and Goyle, who had clear­ly been wait­ing all week for the op­por­tu­ni­ty to strike with­out teach­er wit­ness­es, at­tempt­ed to am­bush Har­ry halfway down the train as he made his way back from the toi­let. The at­tack might have suc­ceed­ed had it not been for the fact that they un­wit­ting­ly chose to stage the at­tack right out­side a com­part­ment full of DA mem­bers, who saw what was hap­pen­ing through the glass and rose as one to rush to Har­ry's aid. By the time Ernie Macmil­lan, Han­nah Ab­bott, Su­san Bones, Justin Finch-​Fletch­ley An­tho­ny Gold­stein and Ter­ry Boot had fin­ished us­ing a wide va­ri­ety of the hex­es and jinx­es Har­ry had taught them, Mal­foy Crabbe and Goyle re­sem­bled noth­ing so much as three gi­gan­tic slugs squeezed in­to Hog­warts uni­form as Har­ry, Ernie and Justin hoist­ed them in­to the lug­gage rack and left them there to ooze.

`I must say, I'm look­ing for­ward to see­ing Mal­foy's moth­er's face when he gets off the train,' said Ernie, with some sat­is­fac­tion, as

he watched Mal­loy squirm above him. Ernie had nev­er quite got over the in­dig­ni­ty of Mal­loy dock­ing points from Huf­flepuff dur­ing his brief spell as a mem­ber of the In­quisi­to­ri­al Squad.

`Goyle's mum'll be re­al­ly pleased, though,' said Ron, who had come to in­ves­ti­gate the source of the com­mo­tion. `He's loads bet­ter­look­ing now… any­way, Har­ry, the food trol­ley's just stopped if you want any­thing…'

Har­ry thanked the oth­ers and ac­com­pa­nied Ron back to their com­part­ment, where he bought a large pile of caul­dron cakes and pump­kin pasties. Hermione was read­ing the Dai­ly Prophet again, Gin­ny was do­ing a quiz in The Quib­bler and Neville was stroking his Mim­bu­lus mim­ble­to­nia, which had grown a great deal over the year and now made odd croon­ing nois­es when touched.

Har­ry and Ron whiled away most of the jour­ney play­ing wiz­ard chess while Hermione read out snip­pets from the Prophet. It was now full of ar­ti­cles about how to re­pel De­men­tors, at­tempts by the Min­istry to track down Death Eaters and hys­ter­ical let­ters claim­ing that the writ­er had seen Lord Volde­mort walk­ing past their house that very morn­ing…

`It hasn't re­al­ly start­ed yet,' sighed Hermione gloomi­ly, fold­ing up the news­pa­per again. `But it won't be long now…'

`Hey, Har­ry' said Ron soft­ly, nod­ding to­wards the glass win­dow on to the cor­ri­dor.

Har­ry looked around. Cho was pass­ing, ac­com­pa­nied by Ma­ri­et­ta Edge­combe, who was wear­ing a bal­acla­va. His and Cho's eyes met for a mo­ment. Cho blushed and kept walk­ing. Har­ry looked back down at the chess­board just in time to see one of his pawns chased off its square by Ron's knight.

`What's - er - go­ing on with you and her, any­way?' Ron asked qui­et­ly

`Noth­ing,' said Har­ry truth­ful­ly.

`I - er - heard she's go­ing out with some­one else now,' said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly.

Har­ry was sur­prised to find that this in­for­ma­tion did not hurt at all. Want­ing to im­press Cho seemed to be­long to a past that was no longer quite con­nect­ed with him; so much of what he had want­ed be­fore Si­nus',' death felt that «°av these days… the week

that had elapsed since he had last seen Sir­ius seemed to have last­ed much, much longer; it stretched across two uni­vers­es, the one with Sir­ius in it, and the one with­out.

`You're well out of it, mate,' said Ron force­ful­ly. `I mean, she's quite good-​look­ing and all that, but you want some­one a bit more cheer­ful.'

`She's prob­ably cheer­ful enough with some­one else,' said Har­ry, shrug­ging.

`Who's she with now, any­way?' Ron asked Hermione, but it was Gin­ny who an­swered.

`Michael Cor­ner,' she said.

`Michael - but = maid Ron, cran­ing around in his seat to stare at her. `But you were go­ing out with him!'

`Not any more,' said Gin­ny res­olute­ly. `He didn't like Gryffind­or beat­ing Raven­claw at Quid­ditch, and got re­al­ly sulky, so I ditched him and he ran off to com­fort Cho in­stead.' She scratched her nose ab­sent­ly with the end of her quill, turned The Quib­bler up­side­down and be­gan mark­ing her an­swers. Ron looked high­ly de­light­ed.

`Well, I al­ways thought he was a bit of an id­iot,' he said, prod­ding his queen for­wards to­wards Har­ry's quiv­er­ing cas­tle. `Good for you. Just choose some­one - bet­ter - next time.'

He cast Har­ry an odd­ly furtive look as he said it.

`Well, I've cho­sen Dean Thomas, would you say he's bet­ter?' asked Gin­ny vague­ly.

WHAT?' shout­ed Ron, up­end­ing the chess­board: Crook­shanks went plung­ing af­ter the pieces and Hed­wig and Pig­wid­geon twit­tered and hoot­ed an­gri­ly from over­head.

As the train slowed down in the ap­proach to King's Cross, Har­ry thought he had nev­er want­ed to leave it less. He even won­dered fleet­ing­ly what would hap­pen if he sim­ply re­fused to get off, but re­mained stub­born­ly sit­ting there un­til the first of Septem­ber, when it would take him back to Hog­warts. When it fi­nal­ly puffed to a stand­still, how­ev­er, he lift­ed down Hed­wig's cage and pre­pared to drag his trunk from the train as usu­al.

When the tick­et in­spec­tor sig­nalled to Har­ry, Ron and Hermione that it was safe to walk through the mag­ical bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten, how­ev­er, he found a sur­prise await­ing him on

the oth­er side: a group of peo­ple stand­ing there to greet him who he had not ex­pect­ed at all.

There was Mad-​Eye Moody, look­ing quite as sin­is­ter with his bowler hat pulled low over his mag­ical eye as he would have done with­out it, his gnarled hands clutch­ing a long staff, his body wrapped in a vo­lu­mi­nous trav­el­ling cloak. Tonks stood just be­hind him, her bright bub­ble-​gum-​pink hair gleam­ing in the sun­light fil­ter­ing through the dirty glass of the sta­tion ceil­ing, wear­ing heav­ily patched jeans and a bright pur­ple T-​shirt bear­ing the leg­end The Weird Sis­ters. Next to Tonks was Lupin, his face pale, his hair grey­ing, a long and thread­bare over­coat cov­er­ing a shab­by jumper and trousers. At the front of the group stood Mr and Mrs. Weasley, dressed in their Mug­gle best, and Fred and George, who were both wear­ing brand-​new jack­ets in some lurid green, scaly ma­te­ri­al.

'Ron, Gin­ny!' called Mrs. Weasley, hur­ry­ing for­wards and hug­ging her chil­dren tight­ly `Oh, and Har­ry dear - how are you?T

'Fine,' lied Har­ry, as she pulled him in­to a tight em­brace. Over her shoul­der he saw Ron gog­gling at the twins' new clothes.

`What are they sup­posed to be?' he asked, point­ing at the jack­ets.

`Finest drag­on­skin, lit­tle bro',' said Fred, giv­ing his zip a lit­tle tweak. `Busi­ness is boom­ing and we thought we'd treat our­selves.'

`Hel­lo, Har­ry' said Lupin, as Mrs. Weasley let go of Har­ry and turned to greet Hermione.

`Hi,' said Har­ry `I didn't ex­pect … what are you all do­ing here?T

'Well,' said Lupin with a slight smile, `we thought we might have a lit­tle chat with your aunt and un­cle be­fore let­ting them take you home.'

`I dun­no if that's a good idea,' said Har­ry at once.

`Oh, I think it is,' growled Moody, who had limped a lit­tle clos­er. That'll be them, will it, Pot­ter?'

He point­ed with his thumb over his shoul­der; his mag­ical eye was ev­ident­ly peer­ing through the back of his head and his bowler hat. Har­ry leaned an inch or so to the left to see where Mad-​Eye was point­ing and there, sure enough, were the three Durs­leys, who looked pos­itive­ly ap­palled to see Har­ry's re­cep­tion com­mit­tee.

`Ah, Har­ry' said Mr Weasley, turn­ing from Hermione's par­ents,

who he had just greet­ed en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, and who were now tak­ing it in turns to hug Hermione. `Well - shall we do it, then?T

'Yeah, I reck­on so, Arthur,' said Moody.

He and Mr Weasley took the lead across the sta­tion to­wards the Durs­leys, who were ap­par­ent­ly root­ed to the floor. Hermione dis­en­gaged her­self gen­tly from her moth­er to join the group.

`Good af­ter­noon,' said Mr Weasley pleas­ant­ly to Un­cle Ver­non as he came to a halt right in front of him. `You might re­mem­ber me, my name's Arthur Weasley'

As Mr Weasley had sin­gle-​hand­ed­ly de­mol­ished most of the Durs­leys' liv­ing room two years pre­vi­ous­ly, Har­ry would have been very sur­prised if Un­cle Ver­non had for­got­ten him. Sure enough, Un­cle Ver­non turned a deep­er shade of puce and glared at Mr Weasley, but chose not to say any­thing, part­ly, per­haps, be­cause the Durs­leys were out­num­bered two to one. Aunt Petu­nia looked both fright­ened and em­bar­rassed; she kept glanc­ing around, as though ter­ri­fied some­body she knew would see her in such com­pa­ny. Dud­ley, mean­while, seemed to be try­ing to look small and in­signif­icant, a feat at which he was fail­ing ex­trav­agant­ly.

`We thought we'd just have a few words with you about Har­ry, said Mr Weasley, still smil­ing.

`Yeah,' growled Moody. `About how he's treat­ed when he's at your place.'

Un­cle Ver­non's mous­tache seemed to bris­tle with in­dig­na­tion. Pos­si­bly be­cause the bowler hat gave him the en­tire­ly mis­tak­en im­pres­sion that he was deal­ing with a kin­dred spir­it, he ad­dressed him­self to Moody.

`I am not aware that it is any of your busi­ness what goes on in my house -

`I ex­pect what you're not aware of would fill sev­er­al books, Durs­ley,' growled Moody.

`Any­way, that's not the point,' in­ter­ject­ed Tonks, whose pink hair seemed to of­fend Aunt Petu­nia more than all the rest put to­geth­er, for she closed her eyes rather than look at her. `The point is, if we find out you've been hor­ri­ble to Har­ry =

`- And make no mis­take, we'll hear about it,' added Lupin pleas­ant­ly.

`Yes,' said Mr Weasley, `even if you won't let Har­ry use the fel­ly­tone =

`Tele­phone,' whis­pered Hermione.

`- Yeah, if we get any hint that Pot­ter's been mis­treat­ed in any way, you'll have us to an­swer to,' said Moody.

Un­cle Ver­non swelled omi­nous­ly. His sense of out­rage seemed to out­weigh even his fear of this bunch of odd­balls.

`Are you threat­en­ing me, sir?' he said, so loud­ly that passers-​by ac­tu­al­ly turned to stare.

`Yes, I am,' said Mad-​Eye, who seemed rather pleased that Un­cle Ver­non had grasped this fact so quick­ly.

`And do I look like the kind of man who can be in­tim­idat­ed?' barked Un­cle Ver­non.

`Well…' said Moody, push­ing back his bowler hat to re­veal his sin­is­ter­ly re­volv­ing mag­ical eye. Un­cle Ver­non leapt back­wards in hor­ror and col­lid­ed painful­ly with a lug­gage trol­ley. `Yes, I'd have to say you do, Durs­ley'

He turned away from Un­cle Ver­non to sur­vey Har­ry.

`So, Pot­ter… give us a shout if you need us. If we don't hear from you for three days in a row, we'll send some­one along…'

Aunt Petu­nia whim­pered piteous­ly. It could not have been plain­er that she was think­ing of what the neigh­bours would say if the't caught sight of these peo­ple march­ing up the gar­den path.

`Bye, then, Pot­ter,' said Moody, grasp­ing Har­ry's shoul­der for a mo­ment with a gnarled hand.

`Take care, Har­ry,' said Lupin qui­et­ly. `Keep in touch.'

`Har­ry, we'll have you away from there as soon as we can,' Mrs. Weasley whis­pered, hug­ging him again.

`We'll see you soon, mate,' said Ron anx­ious­ly, shak­ing Har­ry's hand.

`Re­al­ly soon, Har­ry' said Hermione earnest­ly. `We promise.'

Har­ry nod­ded. He some­how could not find words to tell them what it meant to him, to see them all ranged there, on his side. In­stead, he smiled, raised a hand in farewell, turned around and led the way out of the sta­tion to­wards the sun­lit street, with Un­cle Ver­non, Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley hur­ry­ing along in his wake.





