Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows




Har­ry Pot­ter

And the Death­ly Hal­lows

By J.K. Rowl­ing

The

ded­ica­tion

of this book

is split

sev­en ways:

to Neil,

to Jes­si­ca,

to David,

to Ken­zie,

to Di,

to Anne,

and to you,

if you have

stuck

with Har­ry

un­til the very

end.

Oh, the tor­ment bred in the race,

the grind­ing scream of death

and the stroke that hits the vein,

the haem­or­rhage none can staunch, the grief,

the curse no man can bear.



But there is a cure in the house

and not out­side it, no,

not from oth­ers but from them,

their bloody strife. We sing to you,

dark gods be­neath the earth.



Now hear, you bliss­ful pow­ers un­der­ground –

an­swer the call, send help.

Bless the chil­dren, give them tri­umph now.



Aeschy­lus, The Lib­er­ation Bear­ers



Death is but cross­ing the world, as friends do the seas; they live in one an­oth­er still. For they must needs be present, that love and live in that which is om­nipresent. In this di­vine glass they see face to face; and their con­verse is free, as well as pure. This is the com­fort of friends, that though they may be said to die, yet their friend­ship and so­ci­ety are, in the best sense, ev­er present, be­cause im­mor­tal.

William Penn, More Fruits of Soli­tude





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER ONE


THE DARK LORD AS­CEND­ING



The two men ap­peared out of nowhere, a few yards apart in the nar­row, moon­lit lane. For a sec­ond they stood quite still, wands di­rect­ed at each oth­er's chests; then, rec­og­niz­ing each oth­er, they stowed their wands be­neath their cloaks and start­ed walk­ing briskly in the same di­rec­tion. “News?” asked the taller of the two. “The best,” replied Severus Snape. The lane was bor­dered on the left by wild, low-​grow­ing bram­bles, on the right by a high, neat­ly man­icured hedge. The men's long cloaks flapped around their an­kles as they marched. “Thought I might be late,” said Yax­ley, his blunt fea­tures slid­ing in and out of sight as the branch­es of over­hang­ing trees broke the moon­light. “It was a lit­tle trick­ier than I ex­pect­ed. But I hope he will be sat­is­fied. You sound con­fi­dent that your re­cep­tion will be good?” Snape nod­ded, but did not elab­orate. They turned right, in­to a wide drive­way that led off the lane. The high hedge curved in­to them, run­ning off in­to the dis­tance be­yond the pair of im­pos­ing wrought-​iron gates bar­ring the men’s way. Nei­ther of them broke step: In si­lence both raised their left arms in a kind of salute and passed straight through, as though the dark met­al was smoke.

The yew hedges muf­fled the sound of the men’s foot­steps. There was a rus­tle some­where to their right: Yax­ley drew his wand again point­ing it over his com­pan­ion’s head, but the source of the noise proved to be noth­ing more than a pure-​white pea­cock, strut­ting ma­jes­ti­cal­ly along the top of the hedge.

“He al­ways did him­self well, Lu­cius. Pea­cocks …” Yax­ley thrust his wand back un­der his cloak with a snort.

A hand­some manor house grew out of the dark­ness at the end of the straight drive, lights glint­ing in the di­amond paned down­stairs win­dows. Some­where in the dark gar­den be­yond the hedge a foun­tain was play­ing. Grav­el crack­led be­neath their feet as Snape and Yax­ley sped to­ward the front door, which swung in­ward at their ap­proach, though no­body had vis­ibly opened it.

The hall­way was large, dim­ly lit, and sump­tu­ous­ly dec­orat­ed, with a mag­nif­icent car­pet cov­er­ing most of the stone floor. The eyes of the pale-​faced por­traits on the wall fol­lowed Snape and Yax­ley as they strode past. The two men halt­ed at a heavy wood­en door lead­ing in­to the next room, hes­itat­ed for the space of a heart­beat, then Snape turned the bronze han­dle.

The draw­ing room was full of silent peo­ple, sit­ting at a long and or­nate ta­ble. The room’s usu­al fur­ni­ture had been pushed care­less­ly up against the walls. Il­lu­mi­na­tion came from a roar­ing fire be­neath a hand­some mar­ble man­tel­piece sur­mount­ed by a gild­ed mir­ror. Snape and Yax­ley lin­gered for a mo­ment on the thresh­old. As their eyes grew ac­cus­tomed to the lack of light, they were drawn up­ward to the strangest fea­ture of the scene: an ap­par­ent­ly un­con­scious hu­man fig­ure hang­ing up­side down over the ta­ble, re­volv­ing slow­ly as if sus­pend­ed by an in­vis­ible rope, and re­flect­ed in the mir­ror and in the bare, pol­ished sur­face of the ta­ble be­low. None of the peo­ple seat­ed un­der­neath this sin­gu­lar sight were look­ing at it ex­cept for a pale young man sit­ting al­most di­rect­ly be­low it. He seemed un­able to pre­vent him­self from glanc­ing up­ward ev­ery minute or so.

“Yax­ley. Snape,” said a high, clear voice from the head of the ta­ble. “You are very near­ly late.”

The speak­er was seat­ed di­rect­ly in front of the fire­place, so that it was dif­fi­cult, at first, for the new ar­rivals to make out more than his sil­hou­ette. As they drew near­er, how­ev­er, his face shone through the gloom, hair­less, snake­like, with slits for nos­trils and gleam­ing red eyes whose pupils were ver­ti­cal. He was so pale that he seemed to emit a pearly glow.

“Severus, here,” said Volde­mort, in­di­cat­ing the seat on his im­me­di­ate right. “Yax­ley – be­side Dolo­hov.”

The two men took their al­lot­ted places. Most of the eyes around the ta­ble fol­lowed Snape, and it was to him that Volde­mort spoke first.

“So?”

“My Lord, the Or­der of the Phoenix in­tends to move Har­ry Pot­ter from his cur­rent place of safe­ty on Sat­ur­day next, at night­fall.”

The in­ter­est around the ta­ble sharp­ened pal­pa­bly: Some stiff­ened, oth­ers fid­get­ed, all gaz­ing at Snape and Volde­mort.

“Sat­ur­day … at night­fall,” re­peat­ed Volde­mort. His red eyes fas­tened up­on Snape’s black ones with such in­ten­si­ty that some of the watch­ers looked away, ap­par­ent­ly fear­ful that they them­selves would be scorched by the fe­roc­ity of the gaze. Snape, how­ev­er, looked calm­ly back in­to Volde­mort’s face and, af­ter a mo­ment or two, Volde­mort’s li­pless mouth curved in­to some­thing like a smile.

“Good. Very good. And this in­for­ma­tion comes –“

“ – from the source we dis­cussed,” said Snape.

“My Lord.”

Yax­ley had leaned for­ward to look down the long ta­ble at Volde­mort and Snape. All faces turned to him.

“My Lord, I have heard dif­fer­ent­ly.”

Yax­ley wait­ed, but Volde­mort did not speak, so he went on, “Dawlish, the Au­ror, let slip that Pot­ter will not be moved un­til the thir­ti­eth, the night be­fore the boy turns sev­en­teen.”

Snape was smil­ing.

“My source told me that there are plans to lay a false trail; this must be it. No doubt a Con­fun­dus Charm has been placed up­on Dawlish. It would not be the first time; he is known to be sus­cep­ti­ble.”

“I as­sure you, my Lord, Dawlish seemed quite cer­tain,” said Yax­ley.

“If he has been Con­fund­ed, nat­ural­ly he is cer­tain,” said Snape. “I as­sure you, Yax­ley, the Au­ror Of­fice will play no fur­ther part in the pro­tec­tion of Har­ry Pot­ter. The Or­der be­lieves that we have in­fil­trat­ed the Min­istry.”

“The Or­der’s got one thing right, then, eh?” said a squat man sit­ting a short dis­tance from Yax­ley; he gave a wheezy gig­gle that was echoed here and there along the ta­ble.

Volde­mort did not laugh. His gaze had wan­dered up­ward to the body re­volv­ing slow­ly over­head, and he seemed to be lost in thought.

“My Lord,” Yax­ley went on, “Dawlish be­lieves an en­tire par­ty of Au­rors will be used to trans­fer the boy –“

Volde­mort held up a large white hand, and Yax­ley sub­sid­ed at once, watch­ing re­sent­ful­ly as Volde­mort turned back to Snape.

“Where are they go­ing to hide the boy next?”

“At the home of one of the Or­der,” said Snape. “The place, ac­cord­ing to the source, has been giv­en ev­ery pro­tec­tion that the Or­der and Min­istry to­geth­er could pro­vide. I think that there is lit­tle chance of tak­ing him once he is there, my Lord, un­less, of course, the Min­istry has fall­en be­fore next Sat­ur­day, which might give us the op­por­tu­ni­ty to dis­cov­er and un­do enough of the en­chant­ments to break through the rest.”

“Well, Yax­ley?” Volde­mort called down the ta­ble, the fire­light glint­ing strange­ly in his red eyes. “Will the Min­istry have fall­en by next Sat­ur­day?”

Once again, all heads turned. Yax­ley squared his shoul­ders.

“My Lord, I have good news on that score. I have – with dif­fi­cul­ty, and af­ter great ef­fort – suc­ceed­ed in plac­ing an Im­perius Curse up­on Pius Thick­nesse.”

Many of those sit­ting around Yax­ley looked im­pressed; his neigh­bor, Dolo­hov, a man with a long, twist­ed face, clapped him on the back.

“It is a start,” said Volde­mort. “But Thick­nesse is on­ly one man. Scrim­geour must be sur­round­ed by our peo­ple be­fore I act. One failed at­tempt on the Min­is­ter’s life will set me back a long way.”

“Yes – my Lord, that is true – but you know, as Head of the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, Thick­nesse has reg­ular con­tact not on­ly with the Min­is­ter him­self, but al­so with the Heads of all the oth­er Min­istry de­part­ments. It will, I think, be easy now that we have such a high-​rank­ing of­fi­cial un­der our con­trol, to sub­ju­gate the oth­ers, and then they can all work to­geth­er to bring Scrim­geour down.”

“As long as our friend Thick­nesse is not dis­cov­ered be­fore he has con­vert­ed the rest,” said Volde­mort. “At any rate, it re­mains un­like­ly that the Min­istry will be mine be­fore next Sat­ur­day. If we can­not touch the boy at his des­ti­na­tion, then it must be done while he trav­els.”

“We are at an ad­van­tage there, my Lord,” said Yax­ley, who seemed de­ter­mined to re­ceive some por­tion of ap­proval. “We now have sev­er­al peo­ple plant­ed with­in the De­part­ment of Mag­ical Trans­port. If Pot­ter Ap­pa­rates or us­es the Floo Net­work, we shall know im­me­di­ate­ly.”

“He will not do ei­ther,” said Snape. “The Or­der is es­chew­ing any form of trans­port that is con­trolled or reg­ulat­ed by the Min­istry; they mis­trust ev­ery­thing to do with the place.”

“All the bet­ter,” said Volde­mort. “He will have to move in the open. Eas­ier to take, by far.”

Again, Volde­mort looked up at the slow­ly re­volv­ing body as he went on, “I shall at­tend to the boy in per­son. There have been too many mis­takes where Har­ry Pot­ter is con­cerned. Some of them have been my own. That Pot­ter lives is due more to my er­rors than to his tri­umphs.”

The com­pa­ny around the ta­ble watched Volde­mort ap­pre­hen­sive­ly, each of them, by his or her ex­pres­sion, afraid that they might be blamed for Har­ry Pot­ter’s con­tin­ued ex­is­tence. Volde­mort, how­ev­er, seemed to be speak­ing more to him­self than to any of them, still ad­dress­ing the un­con­scious body above him.

“I have been care­less, and so have been thwart­ed by luck and chance, those wreck­ers of all but the best-​laid plans. But I know bet­ter now. I un­der­stand those things that I did not un­der­stand be­fore. I must be the one to kill Har­ry Pot­ter, and I shall be.”

At these words, seem­ing­ly in re­sponse to them, a sud­den wail sound­ed, a ter­ri­ble, drawn-​out cry of mis­ery and pain. Many of those at the ta­ble looked down­ward, star­tled, for the sound had seemed to is­sue from be­low their feet.

“Worm­tail,” said Volde­mort, with no change in his qui­et, thought­ful tone, and with­out re­mov­ing his eyes from the re­volv­ing body above, “have I not spo­ken to you about keep­ing our pris­on­er qui­et?”

“Yes, m-​my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down the ta­ble, who had been sit­ting so low in his chair that it ap­peared, at first glance, to be un­oc­cu­pied. Now he scram­bled from his seat and scur­ried from the room, leav­ing noth­ing be­hind him but a cu­ri­ous gleam of sil­ver.

“As I was say­ing,” con­tin­ued Volde­mort, look­ing again at the tense faces of his fol­low­ers, “I un­der­stand bet­ter now. I shall need, for in­stance, to bor­row a wand from one of you be­fore I go to kill Pot­ter.”

The faces around him dis­played noth­ing but shock; he might have an­nounced that he want­ed to bor­row one of their arms.

“No vol­un­teers?” said Volde­mort. “Let’s see … Lu­cius, I see no rea­son for you to have a wand any­more.”

Lu­cius Mal­foy looked up. His skin ap­peared yel­low­ish and waxy in the fire­light, and his eyes were sunken and shad­owed. When he spoke, his voice was hoarse.

“My Lord?”

“Your wand, Lu­cius. I re­quire your wand.”

“I …”

Mal­foy glanced side­ways at his wife. She was star­ing straight ahead, quite as pale as he was, her long blonde hair hang­ing down her back, but be­neath the ta­ble her slim fin­gers closed briefly on his wrist. At her touch, Mal­foy put his hand in­to his robes, with­drew a wand, and passed it along to Volde­mort, who held it up in front of his red eyes, ex­am­in­ing it close­ly.

“What is it?”

“Elm, my Lord,” whis­pered Mal­foy.

“And the core?”

“Drag­on – drag­on heart­string.”

“Good,” said Volde­mort. He drew out his wand and com­pared the lengths. Lu­cius Mal­foy made an in­vol­un­tary move­ment; for a frac­tion of a sec­ond, it seemed he ex­pect­ed to re­ceive Volde­mort’s wand in ex­change for his own. The ges­ture was not missed by Volde­mort, whose eyes widened ma­li­cious­ly.

“Give you my wand, Lu­cius? My wand?”

Some of the throng snig­gered.

“I have giv­en you your lib­er­ty, Lu­cius, is that not enough for you? But I have no­ticed that you and your fam­ily seem less than hap­py of late … What is it about my pres­ence in your home that dis­places you, Lu­cius?”

“Noth­ing – noth­ing, my Lord!”

“Such lies Lu­cius … “

The soft voice seemed to hiss on even af­ter the cru­el mouth had stopped mov­ing. One or two of the wiz­ards bare­ly re­pressed a shud­der as the hiss­ing grew loud­er; some­thing heavy could be heard slid­ing across the floor be­neath the ta­ble.

The huge snake emerged to climb slow­ly up Volde­mort’s chair. It rose, seem­ing­ly end­less­ly, and came to rest across Volde­mort’s shoul­ders: its neck the thick­ness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their ver­ti­cal slits for pupils, un­blink­ing. Volde­mort stroked the crea­ture ab­sent­ly with long thin fin­gers, still look­ing at Lu­cius Mal­foy.

“Why do the Mal­foys look so un­hap­py with their lot? Is my re­turn, my rise to pow­er, not the very thing they pro­fessed to de­sire for so many years?”

“Of course, my Lord,” said Lu­cius Mal­foy. His hand shook as he wiped sweat from his up­per lip. “We did de­sire it – we do.”

To Mal­foy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes avert­ed from Volde­mort and the snake. To his right, his son, Dra­co, who had been gaz­ing up at the in­ert body over­head, glanced quick­ly at Volde­mort and away again, ter­ri­fied to make eye con­tact.

“My Lord,” said a dark wom­an halfway down the ta­ble, her voice con­strict­ed with emo­tion, “it is an hon­or to have you here, in our fam­ily’s house. There can be no high­er plea­sure.”

She sat be­side her sis­ter, as un­like her in looks, with her dark hair and heav­ily lid­ded eyes, as she was in bear­ing and de­meanor; where Nar­cis­sa sat rigid and im­pas­sive, Bel­la­trix leaned to­ward Volde­mort, for mere words could not demon­strate her long­ing for close­ness.

“No high­er plea­sure,” re­peat­ed Volde­mort, his head tilt­ed a lit­tle to one side as he con­sid­ered Bel­la­trix. “That means a great deal, Bel­la­trix, from you.”

Her face flood­ed with col­or; her eyes welled with tears of de­light.

“My Lord knows I speak noth­ing but the truth!”

“No high­er plea­sure … even com­pared with the hap­py event that, I hear, has tak­en place in your fam­ily this week?”

She stared at him, her lips part­ed, ev­ident­ly con­fused.

“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.”

“I’m talk­ing about your niece, Bel­la­trix. And yours, Lu­cius and Nar­cis­sa. She has just mar­ried the were­wolf, Re­mus Lupin. You must be so proud.”

There was an erup­tion of jeer­ing laugh­ter from around the ta­ble. Many leaned for­ward to ex­change glee­ful looks; a few thumped the ta­ble with their fists. The gi­ant snake, dis­lik­ing the dis­tur­bance, opened its mouth wide and hissed an­gri­ly, but the Death Eaters did not hear it, so ju­bi­lant were they at Bel­la­trix and the Mal­foys’ hu­mil­ia­tion. Bel­la­trix’s face, so re­cent­ly flushed wit hap­pi­ness, had turned an ug­ly, blotchy red.

“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the out­pour­ing of mirth. “We – Nar­cis­sa and I – have nev­er set eyes on our sis­ter since she mar­ried the Mud­blood. This brat has noth­ing to do with ei­ther of us, nor any beast she mar­ries.”

“What say you, Dra­co?” asked Volde­mort, and though his voice was qui­et, it car­ried clear­ly through the cat­calls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?”

The hi­lar­ity mount­ed; Dra­co Mal­foy looked in ter­ror at his fa­ther, who was star­ing down in­to his own lap, then caught his moth­er’s eye. She shook her head al­most im­per­cep­ti­bly, then re­sumed her own dead­pan stare at the op­po­site wall.

“Enough,” said Volde­mort, stroking the an­gry snake. “Enough.”

And the laugh­ter died at once.

“Many of our old­est fam­ily trees be­come a lit­tle dis­eased over time,” he said as Bel­la­trix gazed at him, breath­less and im­plor­ing, “You must prune yours, must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threat­en the health of the rest.”

“Yes, my Lord,” whis­pered Bel­la­trix, and her eyes swam with tears of grat­itude again. “At the first chance!”

“You shall have it,” said Volde­mort. “And in your fam­ily, so in the world … we shall cut away the canker that in­fects us un­til on­ly those of the true blood re­main …”

Volde­mort raised Lu­cius Mal­foy’s wand, point­ed it di­rect­ly at the slow­ly re­volv­ing fig­ure sus­pend­ed over the ta­ble, and gave it a tiny flick. The fig­ure came to life with a groan and be­gan to strug­gle against in­vis­ible bonds.

“Do you rec­og­nize our guest, Severus?” asked Volde­mort.

Snape raised his eyes to the up­side down face. All of the Death Eaters were look­ing up at the cap­tive now, as though they had been giv­en per­mis­sion to show cu­rios­ity. As she re­volved to face the fire­light, the wom­an said in a cracked and ter­ri­fied voice, “Severus! Help me!”

“Ah, yes,” said Snape as the pris­on­er turned slow­ly away again.

“And you, Dra­co?” asked Volde­mort, stroking the snake’s snout with his wand-​free hand. Dra­co shook his head jerk­ily. Now that the wom­an had wo­ken, he seemed un­able to look at her any­more.

“But you would not have tak­en her class­es,” said Volde­mort. “For those of you who do not know, we are joined here tonight by Char­ity Burbage who, un­til re­cent­ly, taught at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and Wiz­ardry.”

There were small nois­es of com­pre­hen­sion around the ta­ble. A broad, hunched wom­an with point­ed teeth cack­led.

“Yes … Pro­fes­sor Burbage taught the chil­dren of witch­es and wiz­ards all about Mug­gles … how they are not so dif­fer­ent from us … “

One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Char­ity Burbage re­volved to face Snape again.

“Severus … please … please … “

“Si­lence,” said Volde­mort, with an­oth­er twitch of Mal­foy’s wand, and Char­ity fell silent as if gagged. “Not con­tent with cor­rupt­ing and pol­lut­ing the minds of Wiz­ard­ing chil­dren, last week Pro­fes­sor Burbage wrote an im­pas­sioned de­fense of Mud­bloods in the Dai­ly Prophet. Wiz­ards, she says, must ac­cept these thieves of their knowl­edge and mag­ic. The dwin­dling of the pure­bloods is, says Pro­fes­sor Burbage, a most de­sir­able cir­cum­stance … She would have us all mate with Mug­gles … or, no doubt, were­wolves … “

No­body laughed this time. There was no mis­tak­ing the anger and con­tempt in Volde­mort’s voice. For the third time, Char­ity Burbage re­volved to face Snape. Tears were pour­ing from her eyes in­to her hair. Snape looked back at her, quite im­pas­sive, as she turned slow­ly away from him again.

“Ava­da Ke­davra”

The flash of green light il­lu­mi­nat­ed ev­ery cor­ner of the room. Char­ity fell, with a re­sound­ing crash, on­to the ta­ble be­low, which trem­bled and creaked. Sev­er­al of the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Dra­co fell out of his on­to the floor.

“Din­ner, Nagi­ni,” said Volde­mort soft­ly, and the great snake swayed and slith­ered from his shoul­ders on­to the pol­ished wood.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWO


IN MEM­ORAN­DUM



Har­ry was bleed­ing. Clutch­ing his right hand in his left and swear­ing un­der his breath, he shoul­dered open his bed­room door. There was a crunch of break­ing chi­na. He had trod­den on a cup of cold tea that had been sit­ting on the floor out­side his bed­room door.

“What the --?”

He looked around, the land­ing of num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, was de­sert­ed. Pos­si­bly the cup of tea was Dud­ley's idea of a clever boo­by trap. Keep­ing his bleed­ing hand el­evat­ed, Har­ry scraped the frag­ments of cup to­geth­er with the oth­er hand and threw them in­to the al­ready crammed bin just vis­ible in­side his bed­room door. Then he tramped across to the bath­room to run his fin­ger un­der the tap.

It was stupid, point­less, ir­ri­tat­ing be­yond be­lief that he still had four days left of be­ing un­able to per­form mag­ic…but he had to ad­mit to him­self that this jagged cut in his fin­ger would have de­feat­ed him. He had nev­er learned how to re­pair wounds, and now he came to think of it – par­tic­ular­ly in light of his im­me­di­ate plans – this seemed a se­ri­ous flaw in his mag­ical ed­uca­tion. Mak­ing a men­tal note to ask Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad of toi­let pa­per to mop up as much of the tea as he could be­fore re­turn­ing to his bed­room and slam­ming the door be­hind him.

Har­ry had spent the morn­ing com­plete­ly emp­ty­ing his school trunk for the first time since he had packed it six years ago. At the start of the in­ter­ven­ing school years, he had mere­ly skimmed off the top­most three quar­ters of the con­tents and re­placed or up­dat­ed them, leav­ing a lay­er of gen­er­al de­bris at the bot­tom – old quills, des­ic­cat­ed bee­tle eyes, sin­gle socks that no longer fit. Min­utes pre­vi­ous­ly, Har­ry had plunged his hand in­to this mulch, ex­pe­ri­enced a stab­bing pain in the fourth fin­ger of his right hand, and with­drawn it to see a lot of blood.

He now pro­ceed­ed a lit­tle more cau­tious­ly. Kneel­ing down be­side the trunk again, he groped around in the bot­tom and, af­ter re­triev­ing an old badge that flick­ered fee­bly be­tween SUP­PORT CEDRIC DIG­GORY and POT­TER STINKS, a cracked and worn-​out Sneako­scope, and a gold lock­et in­side which a note signed R.A.B. had been hid­den, he fi­nal­ly dis­cov­ered the sharp edge that had done the dam­age. He rec­og­nized it at once. It was a two-​inch-​long frag­ment of the en­chant­ed mir­ror that his dead god­fa­ther, Sir­ius, had giv­en him. Har­ry laid it aside and felt cau­tious­ly around the trunk for the rest, but noth­ing more re­mained of his god­fa­ther's last gift ex­cept pow­dered glass, which clung to the deep­est lay­er of de­bris like glit­ter­ing grit.

Har­ry sat up and ex­am­ined the jagged piece on which he had cut him­self, see­ing noth­ing but his own bright green eye re­flect­ed back at him. Then he placed the frag­ment on top of that morn­ing's Dai­ly prophet, which lay un­read on the bed, and at­tempt­ed to stem the sud­den up­surge of bit­ter mem­ories, the stabs of re­gret and of long­ing the dis­cov­ery of the bro­ken mir­ror had oc­ca­sioned, by at­tack­ing the rest of the rub­bish in the trunk.

It took an­oth­er hour to emp­ty it com­plete­ly, throw away the use­less items, and sort the re­main­der in piles ac­cord­ing to whether or not he would need them from now on. His school and Quid­ditch robes, caul­dron, parch­ment, quills, and most of his text­books were piled in a cor­ner, to be left be­hind. He won­dered what his aunt and un­cle would do with them; burn them in the dead of night, prob­ably, as if they were ev­idence of some dread­ful crime. His Mug­gle cloth­ing, In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, po­tion-​mak­ing kit, cer­tain books, the pho­to­graph al­bum Ha­grid had once giv­en him, a stack of let­ters, and his wand had been repacked in­to an old ruck­sack. In a front pock­et were the Ma­raud­er's Map and the lock­et with the note signed R.A.B. in­side it. The lock­et was ac­cord­ed this place of hon­or not be­cause it was valu­able – in all usu­al sens­es it was worth­less – but be­cause of what it had cost to at­tain it.

This left a siz­able stack of news­pa­pers sit­ting on his desk be­side his snowy owl, Hed­wig: one for each of the days Har­ry had spent at Priv­et Drive this sum­mer.

He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to his desk. Hed­wig made no move­ment as he be­gan to flick through news­pa­pers, throw­ing them in­to the rub­bish pile one by one. The owl was asleep or else fak­ing; she was an­gry with Har­ry about the lim­it­ed amount of time she was al­lowed out of her cage at the mo­ment.

As he neared the bot­tom of the pile of news­pa­pers, Har­ry slowed down, search­ing for one par­tic­ular is­sue that he knew had ar­rived short­ly af­ter he had re­turned to Priv­et Drive for the sum­mer; he re­mem­bered that there had been a small men­tion on the front about the res­ig­na­tion of Char­ity Burbage, the Mug­gle Stud­ies teach­er at Hog­warts. At last he found it. Turn­ing to page ten, he sank in­to his desk chair and reread the ar­ti­cle he had been look­ing for.



AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE RE­MEM­BERED

By El­phias Doge

I met Al­bus Dum­ble­dore at the age of eleven, on our first day at Hog­warts. Our mu­tu­al at­trac­tion was un­doubt­ed­ly due to the fact that we both felt our­selves to be out­siders. I had con­tract­ed drag­on pox short­ly be­fore ar­riv­ing at school, and while I was no longer con­ta­gious, my pock-​marked vis­age and green­ish hue did not en­cour­age many to ap­proach me. For his part, Al­bus had ar­rived at Hog­warts un­der the bur­den of un­want­ed no­to­ri­ety. Scarce­ly a year pre­vi­ous­ly, his fa­ther, Per­ci­val, had been con­vict­ed of a sav­age and well-​pub­li­cized at­tack up­on three young Mug­gles.

Al­bus nev­er at­tempt­ed to de­ny that his fa­ther (who was to die in Azk­aban) had com­mit­ted this crime; on the con­trary, when I plucked up courage to ask him, he as­sured me that he knew his fa­ther to be guilty. Be­yond that, Dum­ble­dore re­fused to speak of the sad busi­ness, though many at­tempt­ed to make him do so. Some, in­deed, were dis­posed to praise his fa­ther's ac­tion and as­sumed that Al­bus too was a Mug­gle-​hater. They could not have been more mis­tak­en: As any­body who knew Al­bus would at­test, he nev­er re­vealed the re­motest an­ti-​Mug­gle ten­den­cy. In­deed, his de­ter­mined sup­port for Mug­gle rights gained him many en­emies in sub­se­quent years.

In a mat­ter of months, how­ev­er, Al­bus's own fame had be­gun to eclipse that of his fa­ther. By the end of his first year he would nev­er again be known as the son of a Mug­gle-​hater, but as noth­ing more or less than the most bril­liant stu­dent ev­er seen at the school. Those of us who were priv­ileged to be his friends ben­efit­ed from his ex­am­ple, not to men­tion his help and en­cour­age­ment, with which he was al­ways gen­er­ous. He con­fessed to me lat­er in life that he knew even then that his great­est plea­sure lay in teach­ing.

He not on­ly won ev­ery prize of note that the school of­fered, he was soon in reg­ular cor­re­spon­dence with the most no­table mag­ical names of the day, in­clud­ing Nico­las Flamel, the cel­ebrat­ed al­chemist; Bathil­da Bagshot, the not­ed his­to­ri­an; and Adal­bert Waf­fling, the mag­ical the­oreti­cian. Sev­er­al of his pa­pers found their way in­to learned pub­li­ca­tions such as Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day, Chal­lenges in Charm­ing, and The Prac­ti­cal Po­tion­eer. Dum­ble­dore's fu­ture ca­reer seemed like­ly to be me­te­oric, and the on­ly ques­tion that re­mained was when he would be­come Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. Though it was of­ten pre­dict­ed in lat­er years that he was on the point of tak­ing the job, how­ev­er, he nev­er had Min­is­te­ri­al am­bi­tions.

Three years af­ter we had start­ed at Hog­warts, Al­bus's broth­er, Aber­forth, ar­rived at school. They were not alike: Aber­forth was nev­er book­ish and, un­like Al­bus, pre­ferred to set­tle ar­gu­ments by du­el­ing rather than through rea­soned dis­cus­sion. How­ev­er, it is quite wrong to sug­gest, as some have, that the broth­ers were not friends. They rubbed along as com­fort­ably as two such dif­fer­ent boys could do. In fair­ness to Aber­forth, it must be ad­mit­ted that liv­ing in Al­bus's shad­ow can­not have been an al­to­geth­er com­fort­able ex­pe­ri­ence. Be­ing con­tin­ual­ly out­shone was an oc­cu­pa­tion­al haz­ard of be­ing his friend and can­not have been any more plea­sur­able as a broth­er. When Al­bus and I left Hog­warts we in­tend­ed to take the then-​tra­di­tion­al tour of the world to­geth­er, vis­it­ing and ob­serv­ing for­eign wiz­ards, be­fore pur­su­ing our sep­arate ca­reers. How­ev­er, tragedy in­ter­vened. On the very eve of our trip, Al­bus's moth­er, Kendra, died, leav­ing Al­bus the head, and sole bread­win­ner, of the fam­ily. I post­poned my de­par­ture long enough to pay my re­spects at Kendra's fu­ner­al, then left for what was now to be a soli­tary jour­ney. With a younger broth­er and sis­ter to care for, and lit­tle gold left to them, there could no longer be any ques­tion of Al­bus ac­com­pa­ny­ing me.

That was the pe­ri­od of our lives when we had least con­tact. I wrote to Al­bus, de­scrib­ing, per­haps in­sen­si­tive­ly, the won­ders of my jour­ney, from nar­row es­capes from chi­maeras in Greece to the ex­per­iments of the Egyp­tian al­chemists. His let­ters told me lit­tle of his day-​to-​day life, which I guessed to be frus­trat­ing­ly dull for such a bril­liant wiz­ard. Im­mersed in my own ex­pe­ri­ences, it was with hor­ror that I heard, to­ward the end of my year's trav­els, that an­oth­er tragedy had struck the Dum­ble­dores: the death of his sis­ter, Ar­iana.

Though Ar­iana had been in poor health for a long time, the blow, com­ing so soon af­ter the loss of their moth­er, had a pro­found ef­fect on both of her broth­ers. All those clos­est to Al­bus – and I count my­self one of that lucky num­ber – agree that Ar­iana's death, and Al­bus's feel­ing of per­son­al re­spon­si­bil­ity for it (though, of course, he was guilt­less), left their mark up­on him forever­more.

I re­turned home to find a young man who had ex­pe­ri­enced a much old­er per­son's suf­fer­ing. Al­bus was more re­served than be­fore, and much less light-​heart­ed. To add to his mis­ery, the loss of Ar­iana had led, not to a re­newed close­ness be­tween Al­bus and Aber­forth, but to an es­trange­ment. (In time this would lift – in lat­er years they reestab­lished, if not a close re­la­tion­ship, then cer­tain­ly a cor­dial one.) How­ev­er, he rarely spoke of his par­ents or of Ar­iana from then on, and his friends learned not to men­tion them.

Oth­er quills will de­scribe the tri­umphs of the fol­low­ing years. Dum­ble­dore's in­nu­mer­able con­tri­bu­tions to the store of Wiz­ard­ing knowl­edge, in­clud­ing his dis­cov­ery of the twelve us­es of drag­on's blood, will ben­efit gen­er­ations to come, as will the wis­dom he dis­played in the many judg­ments while Chief War­lock of the Wiz­eng­amot. They say, still, that no Wiz­ard­ing du­el ev­er matched that be­tween Dum­ble­dore and Grindel­wald in 1945. Those who wit­nessed it have writ­ten of the ter­ror and the awe they felt as they watched these two ex­traor­di­nary wiz­ards to bat­tle. Dum­ble­dore's tri­umph, and its con­se­quences for the Wiz­ard­ing world, are con­sid­ered a turn­ing point in mag­ical his­to­ry to match the in­tro­duc­tion of the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy or the down­fall of He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named.

Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was nev­er proud or vain; he could find some­thing to val­ue in any­one, how­ev­er ap­par­ent­ly in­signif­icant or wretched, and I be­lieve that his ear­ly loss­es en­dowed him with great hu­man­ity and sym­pa­thy. I shall miss his friend­ship more than I can say, but my loss is noth­ing com­pared to the Wiz­ard­ing world's. That he was the most in­spir­ing and best loved of all Hog­warts head­mas­ters can­not be in ques­tion. He died as he lived: work­ing al­ways for the greater good and, to his last hour, as will­ing to stretch out a hand to a small boy with drag­on pox as he was on the day I met him.

Har­ry fin­ished read­ing, but con­tin­ued to gaze at the pic­ture ac­com­pa­ny­ing the obit­uary. Dum­ble­dore was wear­ing his fa­mil­iar, kind­ly smile, but as he peered over the top of his half-​moon spec­ta­cles, he gave the im­pres­sion, even in newsprint, of X-​ray­ing Har­ry, whose sad­ness min­gled with a sense of hu­mil­ia­tion.

He had thought he knew Dum­ble­dore quite well, but ev­er since read­ing this obit­uary he had been forced to rec­og­nize that he had bare­ly known him at all. Nev­er once had he imag­ined Dum­ble­dore's child­hood or youth; it was as though he had sprung in­to be­ing as Har­ry had known him, ven­er­able and sil­ver-​haired and old. The idea of a teenage Dum­ble­dore was sim­ply odd, like try­ing to imag­ine a stupid Hermione or a friend­ly Blast-​End­ed Skrewt.

He had nev­er thought to ask Dum­ble­dore about his past. No doubt it would have felt strange, im­per­ti­nent even, but af­ter all it had been com­mon knowl­edge that Dum­ble­dore had tak­en part in that leg­endary du­el with Grindel­wald, and Har­ry had not thought to ask Dum­ble­dore what that had been like, nor about any of his oth­er fa­mous achieve­ments. No, they had al­ways dis­cussed Har­ry, Har­ry's past, Har­ry's fu­ture, Har­ry's plans… and it seemed to Har­ry now, de­spite the fact that his fu­ture was so dan­ger­ous and so un­cer­tain, that he had missed ir­re­place­able op­por­tu­ni­ties when he had failed to ask Dum­ble­dore more about him­self, even though the on­ly per­son­al ques­tion he had ev­er asked his head­mas­ter was al­so the on­ly one he sus­pect­ed that Dum­ble­dore had not an­swered hon­est­ly:

“What do you see when you look in the mir­ror?”

“I? I see my­self hold­ing a pair of thick, woolen socks.”

Af­ter sev­er­al min­utes' thought, Har­ry tore the obit­uary out of the Prophet, fold­ed it care­ful­ly, and tucked it in­side the first vol­ume of Prac­ti­cal De­fen­sive Mag­ic and its Use against the Dark Arts. Then he threw the rest of the news­pa­per on­to the rub­bish pile and turned to face the room. It was much ti­di­er. The on­ly things left out of place were to­day's Dai­ly Prophet, still ly­ing on the bed, and on top of it, the piece of bro­ken mir­ror.

Har­ry moved across the room, slid the mir­ror frag­ment off to­day's Prophet, and un­fold­ed the news­pa­per. He had mere­ly glanced at the head­line when he had tak­en the rolled-​up pa­per from the de­liv­ery owl ear­ly that morn­ing and thrown it aside, af­ter not­ing that it said noth­ing about Volde­mort. Har­ry was sure that the Min­istry was lean­ing on the Prophet to sup­press news about Volde­mort. It was on­ly now, there­fore, that he saw what he had missed.

Across the bot­tom half of the front page a small­er head­line was set over a pic­ture of Dum­ble­dore strid­ing along, look­ing har­ried:



DUM­BLE­DORE – THE TRUTH AT LAST?

Com­ing next week, the shock­ing sto­ry of the flawed ge­nius con­sid­ered by many to be the great­est wiz­ard of his gen­er­ation. Strip­ing away the pop­ular im­age of serene, sil­ver-​beard­ed wis­dom, Ri­ta Skeeter re­veals the dis­turbed child­hood, the law­less youth, the life-​long feuds, and the guilty se­crets that Dum­ble­dore car­ried to his grave, WHY was the man tipped to be the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic con­tent to re­main a mere head­mas­ter? WHAT was the re­al pur­pose of the se­cret or­ga­ni­za­tion known as the Or­der of the Phoenix? HOW did Dum­ble­dore re­al­ly meet his end?

The an­swers to these and many more ques­tions are ex­plored in the ex­plo­sive new bi­og­ra­phy, The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, by Ri­ta Skeeter, ex­clu­sive­ly in­ter­viewed by Berry Braith­waite, page 13, in­side.

Har­ry ripped open the pa­per and found page thir­teen. The ar­ti­cle was topped with a pic­ture show­ing an­oth­er fa­mil­iar face: a wom­an wear­ing jew­eled glass­es with elab­orate­ly curled blonde hair, her teeth bared in what was clear­ly sup­posed to be a win­ning smile, wig­gling her fin­gers up at him. Do­ing his best to ig­nore this nau­se­at­ing im­age, Har­ry read on.

In per­son, Ri­ta Skeeter is much warmer and soft­er than her fa­mous­ly fe­ro­cious quill-​por­traits might sug­gest. Greet­ing me in the hall­way of her cozy home, she leads me straight in­to the kitchen for a cup of tea, a slice of pound cake and, it goes with­out say­ing, a steam­ing vat of fresh­est gos­sip.

“Well, of course, Dum­ble­dore is a bi­og­ra­pher's dream,” says Skeeter. “Such a long, full life. I'm sure my book will be the first of very, very many.”

Skeeter was cer­tain­ly quick off the mark. Her nine-​hun­dred-​page book was com­plet­ed in a mere four weeks af­ter Dum­ble­dore's mys­te­ri­ous death in June. I ask her how she man­aged this su­per­fast feat.

“Oh, when you've been a jour­nal­ist as long as I have, work­ing to a dead­line is sec­ond na­ture. I knew that the Wiz­ard­ing world was clam­or­ing for the full sto­ry and I want­ed to be the first to meet that need.”

I men­tion the re­cent, wide­ly pub­li­cized re­marks of El­phias Doge, Spe­cial Ad­vi­sor to the Wiz­eng­amot and long­stand­ing friend of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore's, that “Skeeter's book con­tains less fact than a Choco­late Frog card.”

Skeeter throws back her head and laughs.

“Dar­ling Dodgy! I re­mem­ber in­ter­view­ing him a few years back about mer­peo­ple rights, bless him. Com­plete­ly gaga, seemed to think we were sit­ting at the bot­tom of Lake Win­der­mere, kept telling me to watch out for trout.”

And yet El­phias Doge's ac­cu­sa­tions of in­ac­cu­ra­cy have been echoed in many places. Does Skeeter re­al­ly feel that four short weeks have been enough to gain a full pic­ture of Dum­ble­dore's long and ex­traor­di­nary life?

“Oh, my dear,” beams Skeeter, rap­ping me af­fec­tion­ate­ly across the knuck­les, “you know as well as I do how much in­for­ma­tion can be gen­er­at­ed by a fat bag of Galleons, a re­fusal to hear the word 'no,' and a nice sharp Quick-​Quotes Quill! Peo­ple were queu­ing to dish the dirt on Dum­ble­dore any­way. Not ev­ery­one thought he was so won­der­ful, you know – he trod on an aw­ful lot of im­por­tant toes. But old Dodgy Doge can get off his high hip­pogriff, be­cause I've had ac­cess to a source most jour­nal­ists would swap their wands for, one who has nev­er spo­ken in pub­lic be­fore and who was close to Dum­ble­dore dur­ing the most tur­bu­lent and dis­turb­ing phase of his youth.”

The ad­vance pub­lic­ity for Skeeter's bi­og­ra­phy has cer­tain­ly sug­gest­ed that there will be shocks in store for those who be­lieve Dum­ble­dore to have led a blame­less life. What were the biggest sur­pris­es she un­cov­ered, I ask?

“Now, come off it. Bet­ty, I'm not giv­ing away all the high­lights be­fore any­body's bought the book!” laughs Skeeter. “But I can promise that any­body who still thinks Dum­ble­dore was white as his beard is in for a rude awak­en­ing! Let's just say that no­body hear­ing him rage against You-​Know-​Who would have dreamed that he dab­bled in the Dark Arts him­self in his youth! And for a wiz­ard who spent his lat­er years plead­ing for tol­er­ance, he wasn't ex­act­ly broad-​mind­ed when he was younger! Yes, Al­bus Dum­ble­dore had an ex­treme­ly murky past, not to men­tion that very fishy fam­ily, which he worked so hard to keep hushed up.”

I ask whether Skeeter is re­fer­ring to Dum­ble­dore's broth­er, Aber­forth, whose con­vic­tion by the Wiz­eng­amot for mis­use of mag­ic caused a mi­nor scan­dal fif­teen years ago.

“Oh, Aber­forth is just the tip of the dung heap,” laughs Skeeter. ”No, no, I'm talk­ing about much worse than a broth­er with a fond­ness for fid­dling about with goats, worse even than the Mug­gle-​maim­ing fa­ther – Dum­ble­dore couldn't keep ei­ther of them qui­et any­way, they were both charged by the Wiz­eng­amot. No, it's the moth­er and the sis­ter that in­trigued me, and a lit­tle dig­ging un­cov­ered a pos­itive nest of nas­ti­ness – but, as I say, you'll have to wait for chap­ters nine to twelve for full de­tails. All I can say now is, it's no won­der Dum­ble­dore nev­er talked about how his nose got bro­ken."

Fam­ily skele­tons notwith­stand­ing, does Skeeter de­ny the bril­liance that led to Dum­ble­dore's many mag­ical dis­cov­er­ies?

“He had brains,” she con­cedes, “al­though many now ques­tion whether he could re­al­ly take full cred­it for all of his sup­posed achieve­ments. As I re­veal in chap­ter six­teen, Ivor Dil­lons­by claims he had al­ready dis­cov­ered eight us­es of drag­on's blood when Dum­ble­dore 'bor­rowed' his pa­pers.”

But the im­por­tance of some of Dum­ble­dore's achieve­ments can­not, I ven­ture, be de­nied. What of his fa­mous de­feat of Grindel­wald?

“Oh, now, I'm glad you men­tioned Grindel­wald,” says Skeeter with such a tan­ta­liz­ing smile. “I'm afraid those who go dewy-​eyed over Dum­ble­dore's spec­tac­ular vic­to­ry must brace them­selves for a bomb­shell – or per­haps a Dung­bomb. Very dirty busi­ness in­deed. All I'll say is, don't be so sure that there re­al­ly was a spec­tac­ular du­el of leg­end. Af­ter they've read my book, peo­ple may be forced to con­clude that Grindel­wald sim­ply con­jured a white hand­ker­chief from the end of his wand and came qui­et­ly!”

Skeeter re­fus­es to give any more away on this in­trigu­ing sub­ject, so we turn in­stead to the re­la­tion­ship that will un­doubt­ed­ly fas­ci­nate her read­ers more than any oth­er.

Oh yes,“ says Skeeter, nod­ding briskly, ”I de­vote an en­tire chap­ter to the whole Pot­ter-​Dum­ble­dore re­la­tion­ship. It's been called un­healthy, even sin­is­ter. Again, your read­ers will have to buy my book for the whole sto­ry, but there is no ques­tion that Dum­ble­dore took an un­nat­ural in­ter­est in Pot­ter from the word go. Whether that was re­al­ly in the boy's best in­ter­ests – well, we'll see. It's cer­tain­ly an open se­cret that Pot­ter has had a most trou­bled ado­les­cence."

I ask whether Skeeter is still in touch with Har­ry Pot­ter, whom she so fa­mous­ly in­ter­viewed last year: a break­through piece in which Pot­ter spoke ex­clu­sive­ly of his con­vic­tion that You-​Know-​Who had re­turned.

“Oh, yes, we've de­vel­oped a clos­er bond,” says Skeeter. “Poor Pot­ter has few re­al friends, and we met at one of the most test­ing mo­ments of his life – the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment. I am prob­ably one of the on­ly peo­ple alive who can say that they know the re­al Har­ry Pot­ter.”

Which leads us neat­ly to the many ru­mors still cir­cu­lat­ing about Dum­ble­dore's fi­nal hours. Does Skeeter be­lieve that Pot­ter was there when Dum­ble­dore died?

“Well, I don't want to say too much – it's all in the book – but eye­wit­ness­es in­side Hog­warts cas­tle saw Pot­ter run­ning away from the scene mo­ments af­ter Dum­ble­dore fell, jumped, or was pushed. Pot­ter lat­er gave ev­idence against Severus Snape, a man against whom he has a no­to­ri­ous grudge. Is ev­ery­thing as it seems? That is for the Wiz­ard­ing com­mu­ni­ty to de­cide – once they've read my book.”

On that in­trigu­ing note, I take my leave. There can be no doubt that Skeeter has quilled an in­stant best­seller. Dum­ble­dore's le­gion of ad­mir­ers, mean­while, may well be trem­bling at what is soon to emerge about their hero.



Har­ry reached the bot­tom of the ar­ti­cle, but con­tin­ued to stare blankly at the page. Re­vul­sion and fury rose in him like vom­it; he balled up the news­pa­per and threw it, with all his force, at the wall, where it joined the rest of the rub­bish heaped around his over­flow­ing bin.

He be­gan to stride blind­ly around the room, open­ing emp­ty draw­ers and pick­ing up books on­ly to re­place them on the same piles, bare­ly con­scious of what he was do­ing, as ran­dom phras­es from Ri­ta's ar­ti­cle echoed in his head: An en­tire chap­ter to the whole Pot­ter-​Dum­ble­dore re­la­tion­ship ... It's been called un­healthy, even sin­is­ter ... He dab­bled in the Dark Arts him­self in his youth ... I've had ac­cess to a source most jour­nal­ists would swap their wands for...

“Lies!” Har­ry bel­lowed, and through the win­dow he saw the next-​door neigh­bor, who had paused to restart his lawn mow­er, look up ner­vous­ly.

Har­ry sat down hard on the bed. The bro­ken bit of mir­ror danced away from him; he picked it up and turned it over in his fin­gers, think­ing, think­ing of Dum­ble­dore and the lies with which Ri­ta Skeeter was de­fam­ing him ...

A flash of bright­est blue. Har­ry froze, his cut fin­ger slip­ping on the jagged edge of the mir­ror again. He had imag­ined it, he must have done. He glanced over his shoul­der, but the wall was a sick­ly peach col­or of Aunt Petu­nia's choos­ing: There was noth­ing blue there for the mir­ror to re­flect. He peered in­to the mir­ror frag­ment again, and saw noth­ing but his own bright green eye look­ing back at him.

He had imag­ined it, there was no oth­er ex­pla­na­tion; imag­ined it, be­cause he had been think­ing of his dead head­mas­ter. If any­thing was cer­tain, it was that the bright blue eyes of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore would nev­er pierce him again.





CHATER THREE

THE DURS­LEYS DE­PART­ING



The sound of the front door slam­ming echoed up the stairs and a voice roared, “Oh! You!”

Six­teen years of be­ing ad­dressed thus left Har­ry in no doubt when his un­cle was call­ing, nev­er­the­less, he did not im­me­di­ate­ly re­spond. He was still at the nar­row frag­ment in which, for a split sec­ond, he had thought he saw Dum­ble­dore’s eye. It was not un­til his un­cle bel­lowed, “BOY!” that Har­ry got slow­ly out of bed and head­ed for the bed­room door, paus­ing to add the piece of bro­ken mir­ror to the ruck­sack filled with things he would be tak­ing with him.

“You took you time!” roared Ver­non Durs­ley when Har­ry ap­peared at the top of the stairs, “Get down here. I want a word!”

Har­ry strolled down­stairs, his hands deep in his pants pock­ets. When he searched the liv­ing room he found all three Durs­leys. They were dressed for pack­ing; Un­cle Ver­non in an old ripped-​up jack­et and Dud­ley, Har­ry’s, large, blond, mus­cu­lar cousin, in his leather jack­et.

“Yes?” asked Har­ry.

“Sit down!” said Un­cle Ver­non. Har­ry raised his eye­brows. “Please!” added Un­cle Ver­non, winc­ing slight­ly as though the word was sharp in his throat.

Har­ry sat. He though he knew what was com­ing. His un­cle be­gan to pace up and down, Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley, fol­low­ing his move­ment with anx­ious ex­pres­sions. Fi­nal­ly, his large pur­ple face crum­pled with con­cen­tra­tion. Un­cle Ver­non stopped in front of Har­ry and spoke.

"I've changed my mind,” he said.

“What a sur­prise,” said Har­ry.

“Don't you take that tone—” be­gan Aunt Petu­nia in a shrill voice, but Ver­non Durs­ley waved her down

“It's all a lot of clap­trap,” said Un­cle Ver­non, glar­ing at Har­ry with pig­gy lit­tle eyes. ”I've de­cid­ed I don't be­lieve a word of it. We’re stay­ing put, we’re not go­ing any­where.”

Har­ry looked up at his un­cle and felt a mix­ture of ex­as­per­ation and amuse­ment. Ver­non Durs­ley had been chang­ing his mind ev­ery twen­ty four hours for the past four weeks, pack­ing and un­pack­ing and repack­ing the car with ev­ery change of heart. Har­ry’s fa­vorite mo­ment had been the one when Un­cle Ver­non, un­aware that Dud­ley had added his dumb­bells to his case since the last time it been repacked, had at­tempt­ed to hoist it back in­to the boot and col­lapsed with a yelp of pain and much swear­ing.

“Ac­cord­ing to you,” Ver­non Durs­ley said, now re­sum­ing his pac­ing up and down the liv­ing room, “we – Petu­nia, Dud­ley, and I – are in dan­ger. From – from –“

“Some of ‘my lot’ right?” said Har­ry

“Well I don’t be­lieve it,” re­peat­ed Un­cle Ver­non, com­ing to a halt in front of Har­ry again. “I was awake half the night think­ing it all over, and I be­lieve it's a plot to get the house.”

“The house?” re­peat­ed Har­ry. “What house?”

“This house!” shrieked Un­cle Ver­non, the vein his fore­head start­ing to pulse. “Our house! House prices are sky­rock­et­ing around here! You want us out of the way and then you're go­ing to do a bit of ho­cus pocus and be­fore we know it the deeds will be in your name and –”

“Are you out of your mind?“ de­mand­ed Har­ry. ”A plot to get this house? Are you ac­tu­al­ly as stupid as you look?"

“Don't you dare --!” squealed Aunt Petu­nia, but again Ver­non waved her down. Slights on his per­son­al ap­pear­ance were it seemed as noth­ing to the dan­ger he had spot­ted.

“Just in case you've for­got­ten,” said Har­ry, “I've al­ready got a house my god­fa­ther left me one. So why would I want this one? All the hap­py mem­ories?”

There was si­lence. Har­ry thought he had rather im­pressed his un­cle with this ar­gu­ment.

“You claim,” said Un­cle Ver­non, start­ing to pace yet again, “that this Lord Thing –”

“—Volde­mort,” said Har­ry im­pa­tient­ly, "and we've been through this about a hun­dred times al­ready. This isn't a claim, it's fact. Dum­ble­dore told you last year, and Kings­ley and Mr. Weasley “

Ver­non Durs­ley hunched his shoul­ders an­gri­ly, and Har­ry guessed that his un­cle was at­tempt­ing to ward off rec­ol­lec­tions of the unan­nounced vis­it, a few days in­to Har­ry's sum­mer hol­idays, of two ful­ly grown wiz­ards. The ar­rival on the doorstep of Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt and Arthur Weasley had come as a most un­pleas­ant shock to the Durs­leys. Har­ry had to ad­mit, how­ev­er that as Mr. Weasley had once de­mol­ished half of the liv­ing room, his reap­pear­ance could not have been ex­pect­ed to de­light Un­cle Ver­non.

“Kings­ley and Mr. Weasley ex­plained it all as well,” Har­ry pressed on re­morse­less­ly, “Once I'm sev­en­teen, the pro­tec­tive charm that keeps me safe will break, and that ex­pos­es you as well as me. The Or­der is sure Volde­mort will tar­get you, whether to tor­ture you to try and find out where I am, or be­cause he thinks by hold­ing you hostage I'd come and try to res­cue you.”

Un­cle Ver­non's and Har­ry's eyes met. Har­ry was sure that in that in­stant they were both won­der­ing the same thing. Then Un­cle Ver­non walked on and Har­ry re­sumed, “You've got to go in­to hid­ing and the Or­der wants to help. You're be­ing of­fered se­ri­ous pro­tec­tion, the best there is.”

Un­cle Ver­non said noth­ing but con­tin­ued to pace up and down. Out­side the sun hung low over the priv­et hedges. The next door neigh­bor's lawn mow­er stalled again.

“I thought there was a Min­istry of Mag­ic?” asked Ver­non Durs­ley abrupt­ly.

“There is,” said Har­ry, sur­prised.

“Well, then, why can't they pro­tect us? It seems to me that, as in­no­cent vic­tims, guilty of noth­ing more than har­bor­ing a marked man, we ought to qual­ify for gov­ern­ment pro­tec­tion!”

Har­ry laughed; he could not help him­self. It was so very typ­ical of his un­cle to put his hopes in the es­tab­lish­ment, even with­in this world that he de­spised and mis­trust­ed.

“You heard what Mr. Weasley and Kings­ley said,” Har­ry replied.

“We think the Min­istry has been in­fil­trat­ed.”

Un­cle Ver­non strode back to the fire­place and back breath­ing so strong­ly that his great black mus­tache rip­pled his face still pur­ple with con­cen­tra­tion.

“All right,” he said. Stop­ping in front of Har­ry get again. “All right, let's say for the sake of ar­gu­ment we ac­cept this pro­tec­tion. I still don't see why we can't have that Kings­ley bloke.”

Har­ry man­aged not to roll his eyes, but with dif­fi­cul­ty. This ques­tion had al­so been ad­dressed half a dozen times.

“As I've told you,” he said through grit­ted teeth, “Kings­ley is pro­tect­ing the Mug – I mean, your Prime Min­is­ter.”

“Ex­act­ly – he's the best!” said Un­cle Ver­non, point­ing at the blank tele­vi­sion screen. The Durs­leys had spot­ted Kings­ley on the news, walk­ing along the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter as he vis­it­ed a hos­pi­tal. This, and the fact that Kings­ley had mas­tered the knack of dress­ing like a Mug­gle, not to men­tion a cer­tain re­as­sur­ing some­thing in his slow, deep voice, had caused the Durs­leys to take to Kings­ley in a way that they had cer­tain­ly not done with any oth­er wiz­ard, al­though it was true that they had nev­er seen him with ear­ring in.

“Well, he's tak­en,” said Har­ry. ”But Hes­tia Jones and Dedalus Dig­gle are more than up to the job –"

“If we'd even seen CVs…” be­gan Un­cle Ver­non, but Har­ry lost pa­tience. Get­ting to his feet, he ad­vanced on his un­cle, not point­ing at the TV set him­self.

“These ac­ci­dents aren't ac­ci­dents – the crashed and ex­plo­sions and de­rail­ments and what­ev­er else has hap­pened since we last watched the news. Peo­ple are dis­ap­pear­ing and dy­ing and he's be­hind it – Volde­mort. I've told you this over and over again, he kills Mug­gles for fun. Even the fogs – they're caused by de­men­tors, and if you can't re­mem­ber what they are, ask your son!”

Dud­ley 's hands jerked up­ward to tow­er his mouth. With his par­ents' and Har­ry's eyes up­on him, he slow­ly low­ered them again and asked, “There are… more of them?”

“More?” laughed Har­ry. “More than the two that at­tacked us, you mean? Of course there are hun­dreds, maybe thou­sands by this time, see­ing as they feed off fear and de­spair—”

“All right, all right,” blus­tered Ver­non Durs­ley. “You've made your point –”

“I hope so,” said Har­ry, “be­cause once I'm sev­en­teen, all of them – Death Eaters, de­men­tors, maybe even In­feri – which means dead bod­ies en­chant­ed by a Dark wiz­ard – will be able to find you and will cer­tain­ly at­tack you. And if you re­mem­ber the last time you tried to out­run wiz­ards, I think you'll agree you need help.”

There was a brief si­lence in which the dis­tant echo of Ha­grid smash­ing down a wood­en front door seemed to re­ver­ber­ate through the in­ter­ven­ing years. Aunt Petu­nia was look­ing at Un­cle Ver­non; Dud­ley was star­ing at Har­ry. Fi­nal­ly Un­cle Ver­non blurt­ed out, “But what about my work? What about Dud­ley's school? I don't sup­pose those things mat­ter to a bunch of layabout wiz­ards –”

“Don't you un­der­stand?” shout­ed Har­ry. “They will tor­ture and kill you like they did my par­ents!”

“Dad,” said Dud­ley in a loud voice, “Dad – I'm go­ing with these Or­der peo­ple.”

“Dud­ley,” said Har­ry, “for the first time in your life, you're talk­ing sense.”

He knew the bat­tle was won. If Dud­ley was fright­ened enough to ac­cept the Or­der's help, his par­ents would ac­com­pa­ny him. There could be no ques­tion of be­ing sep­arat­ed from their Dud­dykins. Har­ry glanced at the car­riage clock on the man­tel­piece.

"They'll be here in about five min­utes, he said, and when one of the Durs­leys replied, he left the room. The prospect of part­ing—prob­ably for­ev­er – from his aunt, un­cle, and cousin was one that he was able to con­tem­plate quite cheer­ful­ly but there was nev­er­the­less a cer­tain awk­ward­ness in the air. What did you say to one an­oth­er at the end of six­teen years' sol­id dis­like?

Back in his bed­room, Har­ry fid­dled aim­less­ly with his ruck­sack then poked a cou­ple of owl nuts through the bats of Hed­wig's cage. They fell with dull thuds to the bot­tom where she ig­nored them.

“We're leav­ing soon, re­al­ly soon,” Har­ry told her. “And then you'll be able to fly again.”

The door­bell rang. Har­ry hes­itat­ed, then head­ed back out of his room and down­stairs. It was too much to ex­pect Hes­tia and Dedalus to cope with the Durs­leys on their own.

“Har­ry Pot­ter!” squeaked an ex­cit­ed voice, the mo­ment Har­ry had opened the door; a small man in a mauve top hat that was sweep­ing him a deep bow. “An hon­or as ev­er!”

“Thanks, Dedalus,” said Har­ry, be­stow­ing a small and em­bar­rassed smile up­on the dark haired Hes­tia. “It's re­al­ly good of you to do this… They're through here, my aunt and un­cle and cousin…”

“Good day to you, Har­ry Pot­ter's rel­atives!” said Dedalus hap­pi­ly strid­ing in­to the liv­ing room. The Durs­leys did not look at all hap­py to be ad­dressed thus; Har­ry half ex­pect­ed an­oth­er change of mind. Dud­ley shrank neared to his moth­er at the sight of the witch and wiz­ard.

“I see you are packed and ready. Ex­cel­lent! The plan, as Har­ry has told you, is a sim­ple one,” said Dedalus, pulling an im­mense pock­et watch out of his waist­coat and ex­am­in­ing it. “We shall be leav­ing be­fore Har­ry does. Due to the dan­ger of us­ing mag­ic in your house –Har­ry be­ing still un­der­age it could pro­vide the Min­istry with an ex­cuse to ar­rest him – we shall be driv­ing, say, ten miles or so be­fore Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing to the safe lo­ca­tion we have picked out for you. You know how to drive, I take it?” He asked Un­cle Ver­non po­lite­ly.

“Know how to –? Of course I rud­dy well know how to drive!” splut­tered Un­cle Ver­non.

“Very clever of you, sir, very clever. I per­son­al­ly would be ut­ter­ly bam­boo­zled by all those but­tons and knobs,” said Dedalus. He was clear­ly un­der the im­pres­sion that he was flat­ter­ing Ver­non Durs­ley, who was vis­ibly los­ing con­fi­dence in the plan with ev­ery word Dedalus spoke.

“Can't even drive,” he mut­tered un­der his breath, his mus­tache rip­pling in­dig­nant­ly, but for­tu­nate­ly nei­ther Dedalus nor Hes­tia seemed to hear him.

“You, Har­ry,” Dedalus con­tin­ued, “will wait here for your guard. There has been a lit­tle change in the ar­range­ments –”

“What d'you mean?“ said Har­ry at once. ”I thought Mad-​Eye was go­ing to come and take me by Side Along-​Ap­pari­tion?"

“Can't do it,” said Hes­tia terse­ly, “Mad-​Eye will ex­plain.”

The Durs­leys, who had lis­tened to all of this with looks of ut­ter in­com­pre­hen­sion on their faces, jumped as a loud voice screeched, “Hur­ry up!” Har­ry looked all around the room be­fore re­al­iz­ing the voice had is­sued from Dedalus's pock­et watch.

“Quite right, were op­er­at­ing to a very tight sched­ule,” said Dedalus nod­ding at his watch and tuck­ing it back in­to his waist coat. “We are at­tempt­ing to time your de­par­ture from the house with your fam­ily's Dis­ap­pari­tion, Har­ry thus the charm breaks the mo­ment you all head for safe­ty.” He turned to the Durs­leys, “Well, are we all packed and ready to go?”

None of them an­swered him. Un­cle Ver­non was still star­ing ap­palled at the bulge in Dedalus's waist­coat pock­et.

“Per­haps we should wait out­side in the hall, Dedalus,” mur­mured Hes­tia. She clear­ly felt that it would be tact­less for them to re­main the room while Har­ry and the Durs­leys ex­changed lov­ing, pos­si­bly tear­ful farewells.

“There's no need,” Har­ry mut­tered, but Un­cle Ver­non made any fur­ther ex­pla­na­tion un­nec­es­sary by say­ing loud­ly,

“Well, this is good-​bye then boy.”

He swung his right arm up­ward to shake Har­ry's hand, but at the last mo­ment seemed un­able to face it, and mere­ly closed his fist and be­gan swing­ing it back­ward and for­ward like a metronome.

“Ready, Dud­dy?” asked Petu­nia, fuss­ily check­ing the clasp of her hand­bag so as to avoid look­ing at Har­ry al­to­geth­er.

Dud­ley did not an­swer but stood there with his mouth slight­ly ajar, re­mind­ing Har­ry a lit­tle of the gi­ant, Grawp.

“Come along, then,” said Un­cle Ver­non.

He had al­ready reached the liv­ing room door when Dud­ley mum­bled, “I don't un­der­stand.”

“What don't you un­der­stand, pop­kin?” asked Petu­nia look­ing up at her son.

Dud­ley raised a large, ham­like hand to point at Har­ry.

"Why isn't he com­ing with us?

Un­cle Ver­non and Aunt Petu­nia froze when they stood star­ing at Dud­ley as though he had just ex­pressed a de­sire to be­come a bal­le­ri­na.

“What?” said Un­cle Ver­non loud­ly.

“Why isn't he com­ing too?” asked Dud­ley.

“Well, he—doesn't want to,” said Un­cle Ver­non, turn­ing to glare at Har­ry and adding, “You don't want to, do you?”

“Not in the slight­est,” said Har­ry.

“There you are,” Un­cle Ver­non told Dud­ley. “Now come on we're off.”

He marched out of the room. They heard the front door open, but Dud­ley did not move and af­ter a few fal­ter­ing steps Aunt Petu­nia stopped too.

“What now?” barked Un­cle Ver­non, reap­pear­ing in the door­way.

It seemed that Dud­ley was strug­gling with con­cepts too dif­fi­cult to put in­to words. Af­ter sev­er­al mo­ments of ap­par­ent­ly painful in­ter­nal strug­gle he said, “But where's he go­ing to go?”

Aunt Petu­nia and Un­cle Ver­non looked at each oth­er. It was clear that Dud­ley was fright­en­ing them. Hes­tia Jones broke the si­lence.

“But… sure­ly you know where your nephew is go­ing?” she asked look­ing be­wil­dered.

“Cer­tain­ly we know,” said Ver­non Durs­ley. "He's off with some of your lot, isn't he? Right, Dud­ley, let's get in the car, you heard the man, we're in a hur­ry.

Again, Ver­non Durs­ley marched as far as the front door, but Dud­ley did not fol­low.

“Off with some of our lot?”

Hes­tia looked out­raged. Har­ry had met this at­ti­tude be­fore Witch­es and wiz­ards seemed stunned that his closed liv­ing rel­atives took so lit­tle in­ter­est in the fa­mous Har­ry Pot­ter.

“It's fine,” Har­ry as­sured her. “It doesn't mat­ter, hon­est­ly.”

“Doesn't mat­ter?” re­peat­ed Hes­tia, her voice ris­ing con­sid­er­ably.

“Don't these peo­ple re­al­ize what you've been through? What dan­ger you are in? The unique po­si­tion you hold in the hearts of the an­ti Volde­mort move­ment?”

“Er –no, they don't,” said Har­ry. “They think I'm a waste of space, ac­tu­al­ly but I'm used to –”

“I don't think you're a waste of space”

If Har­ry had not seen Dud­ley's lips move, he might not have be­lieved it. As it was, he stared at Dud­ley for sev­er­al sec­onds be­fore ac­cept­ing that it must have been his cousin who had spo­ken; for one thing, Dud­ley had turned red. Har­ry was em­bar­rassed and as­ton­ished him­self.

“Well... er… thanks, Dud­ley.”

Again, Dud­ley ap­peared to grap­ple with thoughts too un­wieldy for ex­pres­sion be­fore mum­bling, “You saved my life,”

“Not re­al­ly,” said Har­ry. “It was your soul the de­men­tor would have tak­en…”

He looked cu­ri­ous­ly at his cousin. They had had vir­tu­al­ly no con­tact dur­ing this sum­mer or last, as Har­ry had come back to Priv­et Drive so briefly and kept to his room so much. It now dawned on Har­ry, how­ev­er, that the cup of cold tea on which he had trod­den that morn­ing might not have been a boo­by trap at all. Al­though rather touched he was nev­er­the­less quite re­lieved that Dud­ley ap­peared to have ex­haust­ed his abil­ity to ex­press his feel­ings. Af­ter open­ing his mouth once or twice more, Dud­ley sub­sid­ed in­to scar­let-​faced si­lence.

Aunt Petu­nia burst in­to tears. Hes­tia Jones gave her an ap­prov­ing look that changed to out­rage as Aunt Petu­nia ran for­ward and em­braced Dud­ley rather than Har­ry.

“S-​so sweet, Dud­ders…” she sobbed in­to his mas­sive chest. “S-​such a love­ly b-​boy… s-​say­ing thank you…”

“But he hasn't said thank you at all!” said Hes­tia in­dig­nant­ly. “He on­ly said he didn't think Har­ry was a waste of space!”

“Yea but com­ing from Dud­ley that's like 'I love you,'” said Har­ry, torn be­tween an­noy­ance and a de­sire to laugh as Aunt Petu­nia con­tin­ued to clutch at Dud­ley as if he had just saved Har­ry from a burn­ing build­ing.

“Are we go­ing or not?” roared Un­cle Ver­non, reap­pear­ing yet again at the liv­ing room door. “I thought we were on a tight sched­ule!”

“Yes –yes, we are,” said Dedalus Dig­gle, who had been watch­ing these ex­changed with an air of be­muse­ment and now seemed to pull him­self to­geth­er. “We re­al­ly must be off. Har­ry –”

He tripped for­ward and wrung Har­ry's hand with both of his own.

“—good luck. I hope we meet again. The hopes of the Wiz­ard­ing world rest up­on your shoul­ders.”

“Oh,” said Har­ry, “right. Thanks.”

“Far­well, Har­ry,” said Hes­tia al­so clasp­ing his hand. “Our thoughts go with you.”

“I hope ev­ery­thing's okay,” said Har­ry with a glance to­ward Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley.

“Oh I'm sure we shall end up the best of chums,” said Dig­gle slight­ly, wav­ing his hat as he left the room. Hes­tia fol­lowed him.

Dud­ley gen­tly re­leased him­self from his moth­er's clutch­es and walked to­ward Har­ry who had to re­press an urge to threat­en him with mag­ic. Then Dud­ley held out his large, pink hand.

“Blimey, Dud­ley,” said Har­ry over Aunt Petu­nia's re­newed sobs, “did the de­men­tors blow a dif­fer­ent per­son­al­ity in­to you?”

“Dun­no,” mut­tered Dud­ley, “See you, Har­ry.”

“Yea …” said Har­ry, rak­ing Dud­ley's hand and shak­ing it. “Maybe. Take care, Big D.”

Dud­ley near­ly smiled. They lum­bered from the room. Har­ry heard his heavy foot­falls on the grav­eled drive, and then a car door slammed.

Aunt Petu­nia whose face had been buried in her hand­ker­chief looked around at the sound. She did not seem to have ex­pect­ed to find her­self alone with Har­ry. Hasti­ly stow­ing her wet hand­ker­chief in­to her pock­et, she said, “Well – good-​bye” and marched to­wards the door with­out look­ing at him.

“Good-​bye” said Har­ry.

She stopped and looked back. For a mo­ment Har­ry had the strangest feel­ing that she want­ed to say some­thing to him; She gave him an odd, tremu­lous look and seemed to teeter on the edge of speech, but then, with a lit­tle of her head, she hus­tled out of the room af­ter he hus­band and son.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER FOUR


THE SEV­EN POT­TERS



Har­ry ran back up­stairs to his bed­room, ar­riv­ing at the win­dow just in time to see the Durs­leys' car swing­ing out of the drive and off up the road. Dedalus’s top hat was vis­ible be­tween Aunt Petu­nia and Dud­ley in the back­seat. The car turned right at the end of Priv­et Drive, its win­dows burned scar­let for a mo­ment in the now set­ting sun, and then it was gone.

Har­ry picked up Hed­wig’s cage, his Fire­bolt, and his ruck­sack, gave his un­nat­ural­ly tidy bed­room one last sweep­ing look, and then made his un­gain­ly way back down­stairs to the hall, where he de­posit­ed cage, broom­stick, and bag near the foot of the stairs. The light was fad­ing rapid­ly, the hall full of shad­ows in the evening light. It felt most strange to stand here in the si­lence and know that he was about to leave the house for the last time. Long ago, when he had been left alone while the Durs­leys went out to en­joy them­selves, the hours of soli­tude had been a rare treat. Paus­ing on­ly to sneak some­thing tasty from the fridge, he had rushed up­stairs to play on Dud­ley’s com­put­er, or put on the tele­vi­sion and flicked through the chan­nels to his heart’s con­tent. It gave him an odd, emp­ty feel­ing re­mem­ber­ing those times; it was like re­mem­ber­ing a younger broth­er whom he had lost.

“Don’t you want to take a last look at the place?” he asked Hed­wig, who was still sulk­ing with her head un­der her wing. “We’ll nev­er be here again. Don’t you want to re­mem­ber all the good times? I mean, look at this door­mat. What mem­ories … Dud­ley sobbed on it af­ter I saved him from the de­men­tors … Turns out he was grate­ful af­ter all, can you be­lieve it? … And last sum­mer, Dum­ble­dore walked through that front door … “

Har­ry lost the thread of his thoughts for a mo­ment and Hed­wig did noth­ing to help him re­trieve it, but con­tin­ued to sit with her head un­der her wing. Har­ry turned his back on the front door.

“And un­der here, Hed­wig” – Har­ry pulled open a door un­der the stairs – “is where I used to sleep! You nev­er knew me then – Blimey, it’s small, I’d for­got­ten … “

Har­ry looked around at the stacked shoes and um­brel­las re­mem­ber­ing how he used to wake ev­ery morn­ing look­ing up at the un­der­side of the stair­case, which was more of­ten than not adorned with a spi­der or two. Those had been the days be­fore he had known any­thing about his true iden­ti­ty; be­fore he had found out how his par­ents had died or why such strange things of­ten hap­pened around him. But Har­ry could still re­mem­ber the dreams that had dogged him, even in those days: con­fused dreams in­volv­ing flash­es of green light and once – Un­cle Ver­non had near­ly crashed the car when Har­ry had re­count­ed it – a fly­ing mo­tor­bike …

There was a sud­den, deaf­en­ing roar from some­where near­by. Har­ry straight­ened up with a jerk and smacked the top of his head on the low door frame. Paus­ing on­ly to em­ploy a few of Un­cle Ver­non’s choic­est swear words, he stag­gered back in­to the kitchen, clutch­ing his head and star­ing out of the win­dow in­to the back gar­den.

The dark­ness seemed to be rip­pling, the air it­self quiv­er­ing. Then, one by one, fig­ures be­gan to pop in­to sight as their Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charms lift­ed. Dom­inat­ing the scene was Ha­grid, wear­ing a hel­met and gog­gles and sit­ting astride an enor­mous mo­tor­bike with a black side­car at­tached. All around him oth­er peo­ple were dis­mount­ing from brooms and, in two cas­es, skele­tal, black winged hors­es.

Wrench­ing open the back door, Har­ry hur­tled in­to their midst. There was a gen­er­al cry of greet­ing as Hermione flung her arms around him, Ron clapped him on the back, and Ha­grid said, “All righ’, Har­ry? Ready fer the off?”

“Def­inite­ly,” said Har­ry, beam­ing around at them all. “But I wasn’t ex­pect­ing this many of you!”

“Change of plan,” growled Mad-​Eye, who was hold­ing two enor­mous bulging sacks, and whose mag­ical eye was spin­ning from dark­en­ing sky to house to gar­den with dizzy­ing ra­pid­ity. “Let’s get un­der­cov­er be­fore we talk you through it.”

Har­ry led them all back in­to the kitchen where, laugh­ing and chat­ter­ing, they set­tled on chairs, sat them­selves up­on Aunt Petu­nia’s gleam­ing work sur­faces, or leaned up against her spot­less ap­pli­ances; Ron, long and lanky; Hermione, her bushy hair tied back in a long plait; Fred and George, grin­ning iden­ti­cal­ly; Bill, bad­ly scarred and long-​haired; Mr. Weasley, kind-​faced, bald­ing, his spec­ta­cles a lit­tle awry; Mad-​Eye, bat­tle-​worn, one-​legged, his bright blue mag­ical eye whizzing in its sock­et; Tonks, whose short hair was her fa­vorite shade of bright pink; Lupin, gray­er, more lined; Fleur, slen­der and beau­ti­ful, with her long sil­very blonde hair; Kings­ley, bald and broad-​shoul­dered; Ha­grid, with his wild hair and beard, stand­ing hunch­backed to avoid hit­ting his head on the ceil­ing; and Mundun­gus Fletch­er, small, dirty, and hang­dog, with his droopy beady hound’s eyes and mat­ted hair. Har­ry’s heart seemed to ex­pand and glow at the sight: He felt in­cred­ibly fond of all of them, even Mundun­gus, whom he had tried to stran­gle the last time they had met.

“Kings­ley, I thought you were look­ing af­ter the Mug­gle Prime Min­is­ter?” he called across the room.

“He can get along with­out me for one night,” said Kings­ley, “You’re more im­por­tant.”

“Har­ry, guess what?” said Tonks from her perch on top of the wash­ing ma­chine, and she wig­gled her left hand at him; a ring glis­tened there.

“You got mar­ried?” Har­ry yelped, look­ing from her to Lupin.

“I’m sor­ry you couldn’t be there, Har­ry, it was very qui­et.”

“That’s bril­liant, con­grat –“

“All right, all right, we’ll have time for a cozy catch-​up lat­er,” roared Moody over the hub­bub, and si­lence fell in the kitchen. Moody dropped his sacks at his feet and turned to Har­ry. “As Dedalus prob­ably told you, we had to aban­don Plan A. Pius Thick­nesse has gone over, which gives us a big prob­lem. He’s made it an im­pris­on­able of­fense to con­nect this house to the Floo Net­work, place a Portkey here, or Ap­pa­rate in or out. All done in the name of your pro­tec­tion, to pre­vent You-​Know-​Who get­ting in at you. Ab­so­lute­ly point­less, see­ing as your moth­er’s charm does that al­ready. What he’s re­al­ly done is to stop you get­ting out of here safe­ly.”

“Sec­ond prob­lem: You’re un­der­age, which means you’ve still got the Trace on you.”

“I don’t –“

“The Trace, the Trace!” said Mad-​Eye im­pa­tient­ly. “The charm that de­tects mag­ical ac­tiv­ity around un­der-​sev­en­teens, the way the Min­istry finds out about un­der­age mag­ic! If you, or any­one around you, casts a spell to get you out of here, Thick­nesse is go­ing to know about it, and so will the Death Eaters.”

“We can’t wait for the Trace to break, be­cause the mo­ment you turn sev­en­teen you’ll lose all the pro­tec­tion your moth­er gave you. In short, Pius Thick­nesse thinks he’s got you cor­nered good and prop­er.”

Har­ry could not help but agree with the un­known Thick­nesse.

“So what are we go­ing to do?”

“We’re go­ing to use the on­ly means of trans­port left to us, the on­ly ones the Trace can’t de­tect, be­cause we don’t need to cast spells to use them: brooms, thes­trals, and Ha­grid’s mo­tor­bike.”

Har­ry could see flaws in this plan; how­ev­er, he held his tongue to give Mad-​Eye the chance to ad­dress them.

“Now, your moth­er’s charm will on­ly break un­der two con­di­tions: when you come of age, or” – Moody ges­tured around the pris­tine kitchen – “you no longer call this place home. You and your aunt and un­cle are go­ing your sep­arate ways tonight, in the full un­der­stand­ing that you’re nev­er go­ing to live to­geth­er again, cor­rect?”

Har­ry nod­ded.

“So this time, when you leave, there’ll be no go­ing back, and the charm will break the mo­ment you get out­side its range. We’re choos­ing to break it ear­ly, be­cause the al­ter­na­tive is wait­ing for You-​Know-​Who to come and seize you the mo­ment you turn sev­en­teen.

“The one thing we’ve got on our side is that You-​Know-​Who doesn’t know we’re mov­ing you tonight. We’ve leaked a fake trail to the Min­istry: They think you’re not leav­ing un­til the thir­ti­eth. How­ev­er, this is You-​Know-​Who we’re deal­ing with, so we can’t re­ly on him get­ting the date wrong; he’s bound to have a cou­ple of Death Eaters pa­trolling the skies in this gen­er­al area, just in case. So, we’ve giv­en a dozen dif­fer­ent hous­es ev­ery pro­tec­tion we can throw at them. They all look like they could be the place we’re go­ing to hide you, they’ve all got some con­nec­tion with the Or­der: my house, Kings­ley’s place, Mol­ly’s Aun­tie Muriel’s – you get the idea.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, not en­tire­ly truth­ful­ly, be­cause he could still spot a gap­ing hole in the plan.

“You’ll be go­ing to Tonks’s par­ents. Once you’re with­in the bound­aries of the pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments we’ve put on their house you’ll be able to use a Portkey to the Bur­row. Any ques­tions?”

“Er – yes,” said Har­ry. “Maybe they won’t know which of the twelve se­cure hous­es I’m head­ing for at first, but won’t it be sort of ob­vi­ous once” – he per­formed a quick head­count – “four­teen of us fly off to­ward Tonks’s par­ents?”

“Ah,” said Moody, “I for­got to men­tion the key point. Four­teen of us won’t be fly­ing to Tonks’s par­ents. There will be sev­en Har­ry Pot­ters mov­ing through the skies tonight, each of them with a com­pan­ion, each pair head­ing for a dif­fer­ent safe house.”

From in­side his cloak Moody now with­drew a flask of what looked like mud. There was no need for him to say an­oth­er word; Har­ry un­der­stood the rest of the plan im­me­di­ate­ly.

“No!” he said loud­ly, his voice ring­ing through the kitchen. “No way!”

“I told them you’d take it like this,” said Hermione with a hint of com­pla­cen­cy.

“If you think I’m go­ing to let six peo­ple risk their lives -- !”

“—be­cause it’s the first time for all of us,” said Ron.

“This is dif­fer­ent, pre­tend­ing to be me –“

“Well, none of us re­al­ly fan­cy it, Har­ry,” said Fred earnest­ly. “Imag­ine if some­thing went wrong and we were stuck as specky, scrawny gits for­ev­er.”

Har­ry did not smile.

“You can’t do it if I don’t co­op­er­ate, you need me to give you some hair.”

“Well, that’s the plan scup­pered,” said George. “Ob­vi­ous­ly there’s no chance at all of us get­ting a bit of your hair un­less you co­op­er­ate.”

“Yeah, thir­teen of us against one bloke who’s not al­lowed to use mag­ic; we’ve got no chance,” said Fred.

“Fun­ny,” said Har­ry, “re­al­ly amus­ing.”

“If it has to come to force, then it will,” growled Moody, his mag­ical eye now quiv­er­ing a lit­tle in its sock­et as he glared at Har­ry. “Ev­ery­one here’s over­age, Pot­ter, and they’re all pre­pared to take the risk.”

Mundun­gus shrugged and gri­maced; the mag­ical eye swerved side­ways to glance at him out of the side of Moody’s head.

“Let’s have no more ar­gu­ments. Time’s wear­ing on. I want a few of your hairs, boy, now.”

“But this is mad, there’s no need –“

“No need!” snarled Moody. “With You-​Know-​Who out there and half the Min­istry on his side? Pot­ter, if we’re lucky he’ll have swal­lowed the fake bait and he’ll be plan­ning to am­bush you on the thir­ti­eth, but he’d be mad not to have a Death Eater or two keep­ing an eye out, it’s what I’d do. They might not be able to get at you or this house while your moth­er’s charm holds, but it’s about to break and they know the rough po­si­tion of the place. Our on­ly chance is to use de­coys. Even You-​Know-​Who can’t split him­self in­to sev­en.”

Har­ry caught Hermione’s eye and looked away at once.

“So, Pot­ter – some of your hair, if you please.”

Har­ry glanced at Ron, who gri­maced at him in a just-​do-​it sort of way.

“Now!” barked Moody.

With all of their eyes up­on him, Har­ry reached up to the top of his head, grabbed a hank of hair, and pulled.

“Good,” said Moody, limp­ing for­ward as he pulled the stop­per out of the flask of po­tion. “Straight in here, if you please.”

Har­ry dropped the hair in­to the mud­like liq­uid. The mo­ment it made con­tact with its sur­face, the po­tion be­gan to froth and smoke, then, all at once, it turned a clear, bright gold.

“Ooh, you look much tasti­er than Crabbe and Goyle, Har­ry,” said Hermione, be­fore catch­ing sight of Ron’s raised eye­brows, blush­ing slight­ly, and say­ing, “Oh, you know what I mean – Goyle’s po­tion tast­ed like bo­gies.”

“Right then, fake Pot­ters line up over here, please,” said Moody.

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, and Fleur lined up in front of Aunt Petu­nia’s gleam­ing sink.

“We’re one short,” said Lupin.

“Here,” said Ha­grid gruffly, and he lift­ed Mundun­gus by the scruff of the neck and dropped him down be­side Fleur, who wrin­kled her nose point­ed­ly and moved along to stand be­tween Fred and George in­stead.

“I’m a sol­dier, I’d soon­er be a pro­tec­tor,” said Mundun­gus.

“Shut it,” growled Moody. “As I’ve al­ready told you, you spine­less worm, any Death Eaters we run in­to will be aim­ing to cap­ture Pot­ter, not kill him. Dum­ble­dore al­ways said You-​Know-​Who would want to fin­ish Pot­ter in per­son. It’ll be the pro­tec­tors who have got the most to wor­ry about, the Death Eaters’ll want to kill them.”

Mundun­gus did not look par­tic­ular­ly re­as­sured, but Moody was al­ready pulling half a dozen eggcup-​sized glass­es from in­side his cloak, which he hand­ed out, be­fore pour­ing a lit­tle Polyjuice Po­tion in­to each one.

“Al­to­geth­er, then … “

Ron, Hermione, Fred, George, Fleur, and Mundun­gus drank. All of them gasped and gri­maced as the po­tion hit their throats; At once, their fea­tures be­gan to bub­ble and dis­tort like hot wax. Hermione and Mundun­gus were shoot­ing up­ward; Ron, Fred, and George were shrink­ing; their hair was dark­en­ing, Hermione’s and Fleur’s ap­pear­ing to shoot back­ward in­to their skulls.

Moody, quite un­con­cerned, was now loos­en­ing the ties of the large sacks he had brought with him. When he straight­ened up again, there were six Har­ry Pot­ters gasp­ing and pant­ing in front of him.

Fred and George turned to each oth­er and said to­geth­er, “Wow – we’re iden­ti­cal!”

“I dun­no, though, I think I’m still bet­ter-​look­ing,” said Fred, ex­am­in­ing his re­flec­tion in the ket­tle.

“Bah,” said Fleur, check­ing her­self in the mi­crowave door, “Bill, don’t look at me – I’m ‘ideous.”

“Those whose clothes are a bit roomy, I’ve got small­er here,” said Moody, in­di­cat­ing the first sack, “and vice ver­sa. Don’t for­get the glass­es, there’s six pairs in the side pock­et. And when you’re dressed, there’s lug­gage in the oth­er sack.”

The re­al Har­ry thought that this might just be the most bizarre thing he had ev­er seen, and he had seen some ex­treme­ly odd things. He watched as his six dop­pel­gangers rum­maged in the sacks, pulling out sets of clothes, putting on glass­es, stuff­ing their own things away. He felt like ask­ing them to show a lit­tle more re­spect for pri­va­cy as they all be­gan strip­ping off with im­puni­ty, clear­ly more at ease with dis­play­ing his body than they would have been with their own.

“I knew Gin­ny was ly­ing about that tat­too,” said Ron, look­ing down at his bare chest.

“Har­ry, your eye­sight re­al­ly is aw­ful,” said Hermione, as she put on glass­es.

Once dressed, the fake Har­rys took ruck­sacks and owl cages, each con­tain­ing a stuffed snowy owl, from the sec­ond sack.

“Good,” said Moody, as at last sev­en dressed, be­spec­ta­cled, and lug­gage-​laden Har­rys faced him. “The pairs will be as fol­lows: Mundun­gus will be trav­el­ing with me, by broom –“

“Why’m I with you?” grunt­ed the Har­ry near­est the back door.

“Be­cause you’re the one that needs watch­ing,” growled Moody, and sure enough, his mag­ical eye did not wa­ver from Mundun­gus as he con­tin­ued, “Arthur and Fred –“

“I’m George,” said the twin at whom Moody was point­ing. “Can’t you even tell us apart when we’re Har­ry?”

“Sor­ry, George –“

“I’m on­ly yank­ing your wand, I’m Fred re­al­ly –“

“Enough mess­ing around!” snarled Moody. “The oth­er one – George or Fred or who­ev­er you are – you’re with Re­mus. Miss Dela­cour –“

“I’m tak­ing Fleur on a thes­tral,” said Bill. “She’s not that fond of brooms.”

Fleur walked over to stand be­side him, giv­ing him a sop­py, slav­ish look that Har­ry hoped with all his heart would nev­er ap­pear on his face again.

“Miss Granger with Kings­ley, again by thes­tral –“

Hermione looked re­as­sured as she an­swered Kings­ley’s smile; Har­ry knew that Hermione too lacked con­fi­dence on a broom­stick.

“Which leaves you and me, Ron!” said Tonks bright­ly, knock­ing over a mug tree as she waved at him.

Ron did not look quite as pleased as Hermione.

“An’ you’re with me, Har­ry. That all righ’?” said Ha­grid, look­ing a lit­tle anx­ious. “We’ll be on the bike, brooms an’ thes­trals can’t take me weight, see. Not a lot o’ room on the seat with me on it, though, so you’ll be in the side­car.”

“That’s great,” said Har­ry, not al­to­geth­er truth­ful­ly.

“We think the Death Eaters will ex­pect you to be on a broom,” said Moody, who seemed to guess how Har­ry was feel­ing. “Snape’s had plen­ty of time to tell them ev­ery­thing about you he’s nev­er men­tioned be­fore, so if we do run in­to any Death Eaters, we’re bet­ting they’ll choose one of the Pot­ters who looks at home on a broom­stick. All right then,” he went on, ty­ing up the sack with the fake Pot­ters’ clothes in it and lead­ing the way back to the door, “I make it three min­utes un­til we’re sup­posed to leave. No point lock­ing the back door, it won’t keep the Death Eaters out when they come look­ing. Come on …”

Har­ry hur­ried to gath­er his ruck­sack, Fire­bolt, and Hed­wig’s cage and fol­lowed the group to the dark back gar­den.

On ev­ery side broom­sticks were leap­ing in­to hands; Hermione had al­ready been helped up on­to a great black thes­tral by Kings­ley, Fleur on­to the oth­er by Bill. Ha­grid was stand­ing ready be­side the mo­tor­bike, gog­gles on.

“Is this it? Is this Sir­ius’s bike?”

“The very same,” said Ha­grid, beam­ing down at Har­ry. “An’ the last time yeh was on it, Har­ry, I could fit yeh in one hand!”

Har­ry could not help but feel a lit­tle hu­mil­iat­ed as he got in­to the side­car. It placed him sev­er­al feet be­low ev­ery­body else: Ron smirked at the sight of him sit­ting there like a child in a bumper car. Har­ry stuffed his ruck­sack and broom­stick down by his feet and rammed Hed­wig’s cage be­tween his knees. He was ex­treme­ly un­com­fort­able.

“Arthur’s done a bit o’ tin­kerin’,” said Ha­grid, quite obliv­ious to Har­ry’s dis­com­fort. He set­tled him­self astride the mo­tor­cy­cle, which creaked slight­ly and sank inch­es in­to the ground. “It’s got a few tricks up its sleeves now. Tha’ one was my idea.” He point­ed a thick fin­ger at a pur­ple but­ton near the speedome­ter.

“Please be care­ful, Ha­grid.” said Mr. Weasley, who was stand­ing be­side them, hold­ing his broom­stick. “I'm still not sure that was ad­vis­able and it's cer­tain­ly on­ly to be used in emer­gen­cies.”

“All right, then.” said Moody. “Ev­ery­one ready, please. I want us all to leave at ex­act­ly the same time or the whole point of the di­ver­sion's lost.”

Ev­ery­body mo­tioned their heads.

“Hold tight now, Ron,” said Tonks, and Har­ry saw Ron throw a forc­ing, guilty look at Lupin be­fore plac­ing his hands on each side of her waist. Ha­grid kicked the mo­tor­bike in­to life: It roared like a drag­on, and the side­car be­gan to vi­brate.

“Good luck, ev­ery­one,” shout­ed Moody. “See you all in about an hour at the Bur­row. On the count of three. One … two .. THREE.”

There was a great roar from the mo­tor­bike, and Har­ry felt the side­car give a nasty lurch. He was ris­ing through the air fast, his eyes wa­ter­ing slight­ly, hair whipped back off his face. Around him brooms were soar­ing up­ward too; the long black tail of a thes­tral flicked past. His legs, jammed in­to the side­car by Hed­wig’s cage and his ruck­sack, were al­ready sore and start­ing to go numb. So great was his dis­com­fort that he al­most for­got to take a last glimpse of num­ber four Priv­et Drive . By the time he looked over the edge of the side­car he could no longer tell which one it was.

And then, out of nowhere, out of noth­ing, they were sur­round­ed. At least thir­ty hood­ed fig­ures, sus­pend­ed in midair, formed a vast cir­cle in the mid­dle of which the Or­der mem­bers had risen, obliv­ious –

Screams, a blaze of green light on ev­ery side: Ha­grid gave a yell and the mo­tor­bike rolled over. Har­ry lost any sense of where they were. Street­lights above him, yells around him, he was cling­ing to the side­car for dear life. Hed­wig's cage, the Fire­bolt, and his ruck­sack slipped from be­neath his knees –

“No – HELP!”

The broom­stick spun too, but he just man­aged to seize the strap of his ruck­sack and the top of the cage as the mo­tor­bike swung the right way up again. A sec­ond's re­lief, and then an­oth­er burst of green light. The owl screeched and fell to the floor of the cage.

“No – NO!”

The mo­tor­bike zoomed for­ward; Har­ry glimpsed hood­ed Death Eaters scat­ter­ing as Ha­grid blast­ed through their cir­cle.

“Hed­wig – Hed­wig –”

But the owl lay mo­tion­less and pa­thet­ic as a toy on the floor of her cage. He could not take it in, and his ter­ror for the oth­ers was paramount. He glanced over his shoul­der and saw a mass of peo­ple mov­ing, flares of green light, two pairs of peo­ple on brooms soar­ing off in­to the dis­tance, but he could not tell who they were –

“Ha­grid, we've got to go back, we've got to go back!” he yelled over the thun­der­ous roar of the en­gine, pulling out his wand, ram­ming Hed­wig's cage in­to the floor, re­fus­ing to be­lieve that she was dead. “Ha­grid, TURN AROUND!”

“My job's ter get you there safe, Har­ry!” bel­low Ha­grid, and he opened the throt­tle.

“Stop – STOP!” Har­ry shout­ed, but as he looked back again two jets of green light flew past his left ear: Four Death Eaters had bro­ken away from the cir­cle and were pur­su­ing them, aim­ing for Ha­grid's broad back. Ha­grid swerved, but the Death Eaters were keep­ing up with the bike; more curs­es shot af­ter them, and Har­ry had to sink low in­to the side­car to avoid them. Wrig­gling around he cried, “Stu­pe­fy!” and a red bolt of light shot from his own wand, cleav­ing a gap be­tween the four pur­su­ing Death Eaters as they scat­tered to avoid it.

“Hold on, Har­ry, this'll do for 'em!” roared Ha­grid, and Har­ry looked up just in time to see Ha­grid slam­ming a thick fin­ger in­to a green but­ton near the fu­el gauge.

A wall, a sol­id black wall, erupt­ed out of the ex­haust pipe. Cran­ing his neck, Har­ry saw it ex­pand in­to be­ing in midair. Three of the Death Eaters swerved and avoid­ed it, but the fourth was not so lucky; He van­ished from view and then dropped like a boul­der from be­hind it, his broom­stick bro­ken in­to pieces. One of his fel­lows slowed up to save him, but they and the air­borne wall were swal­lowed by dark­ness as Ha­grid leaned low over the han­dle­bars and sped up.

More Killing Curs­es flew past Har­ry's head from the two re­main­ing Death Eaters' wands; they were aim­ing for Ha­grid. Har­ry re­spond­ed with fur­ther Stun­ning Spells: Red and green col­lid­ed in midair in a show­er of mul­ti­col­ored sparks, and Har­ry thought wild­ly of fire­works, and the Mug­gles be­low who would have no idea what was hap­pen­ing –

“Here we go again, Har­ry, hold on!” yelled Ha­grid, and he jabbed at a sec­ond but­ton. This time a great net burst from the bike's ex­haust, but the Death Eaters were ready for it. Not on­ly did they swerve to avoid it, but the com­pan­ion who had slowed to save their un­con­scious friend had caught up. He bloomed sud­den­ly out of the dark­ness and now three of them were pur­su­ing the mo­tor­bike, all shoot­ing curs­es af­ter it.

“This'll do it, Har­ry, hold on tight!” yelled Ha­grid, and Har­ry saw him slam his whole hand on­to the pur­ple but­ton be­side the speedome­ter.

With an un­mis­tak­able bel­low­ing roar, drag­on fire burst from the ex­haust, white-​hot and blue, and the mo­tor­bike shot for­ward like a bul­let with a sound of wrench­ing met­al. Har­ry saw the Death Eaters swerve out of sight to avoid the dead­ly trail of flame, and at the same time felt the side­car sway omi­nous­ly: Its met­al con­nec­tions to the bike had splin­tered with the force of ac­cel­er­ation.

“It's all righ', Har­ry!” bel­lowed Ha­grid, now thrown flat on­to the back by the surge of speed; no­body was steer­ing now, and the side­car was start­ing to twist vi­olent­ly in the bike's slip­stream.

“I'm on it, Har­ry, don' wor­ry!” Ha­grid yelled, and from in­side his jack­et pock­et he pulled his flow­ery pink um­brel­la.

“Ha­grid! No! Let me!”

“REPARO!”

There was a deaf­en­ing bang and the side­car broke away from the bike com­plete­ly. Har­ry sped for­ward, pro­pelled by the im­pe­tus of the bike's flight, then the side­car be­gan to lose height –

In des­per­ation Har­ry point­ed his wand at the side­car and shout­ed, “Wingardi­um Leviosa!”

The side­car rose like a cork, un­steer­able but at least still air­borne. He had but a split sec­ond's re­lief, how­ev­er, as more curs­es streaked past him: The three Death Eaters were clos­ing in.

“I'm comin', Har­ry!” Ha­grid yelled from out of the dark­ness, but Har­ry could feel the side­car be­gin­ning to sink again: Crouch­ing as low as he could, he point­ed at the mid­dle of the on­com­ing fig­ures and yelled, “Im­ped­imen­ta!”

The jinx hit the mid­dle Death Eater in the chest; For a mo­ment the man was ab­surd­ly spread-​ea­gled in midair as though he had hit an in­vis­ible bar­ri­er: One of his fel­lows al­most col­lid­ed with him –

Then the side­car be­gan to fall in earnest, and the re­main­ing Death Eater shot a curse so close to Har­ry that he had to duck be­low the rim of the car, knock­ing out a tooth on the edge of his seat –

“I'm comin', Har­ry, I'm comin'!”

A huge hand seized the back of Har­ry's robes and hoist­ed him out of the plum­met­ing side­car; Har­ry pulled his ruck­sack with him as he dragged him­self on­to the mo­tor­bike's seat and found him­self back-​to-​back with Ha­grid. As they soared up­ward, away from the two re­main­ing Death Eaters, Har­ry spat blood out of his mouth, point­ed his wand at the falling side­car, and yelled, “Con­fringo!”

He knew a dread­ful, gut-​wrench­ing pang for Hed­wig as it ex­plod­ed; the Death Eater near­est it was blast­ed off his broom and fell from sight; his com­pan­ion fell back and van­ished.

“Har­ry, I'm sor­ry, I'm sor­ry,” moaned Ha­grid, “I shouldn'ta tried ter re­pair it me­self – yeh've got no room –”

“It's not a prob­lem, just keep fly­ing!” Har­ry shout­ed back, as two more Death Eaters emerged out of the dark­ness, draw­ing clos­er.

As the curs­es came shoot­ing across the in­ter­ven­ing space again, Ha­grid swerved and zigzagged: Har­ry knew that Ha­grid did not dare use the drag­on-​fire but­ton again, with Har­ry seat­ed so in­se­cure­ly. Har­ry sent Stun­ning Spell af­ter Stun­ning Spell back at their pur­suers, bare­ly hold­ing them off. He shot an­oth­er block­ing jinx at them: The clos­est Death Eater swerved to avoid it and his hood slipped, and by the red light of his next Stun­ning Spell, Har­ry saw the strange­ly blank face of Stan­ley Shun­pike – Stan –

“Ex­pel­liar­mus!” Har­ry yelled.

“That's him, it's him, it's the re­al one!”

The hood­ed Death Eater's shout reached Har­ry even above the thun­der of the mo­tor­bike's en­gine: Next mo­ment, both pur­suers had fall­en back and dis­ap­peared from view.

“Har­ry, what's hap­pened?” bel­lowed Ha­grid. “Where've they gone?”

“I don't know!”

But Har­ry was afraid: The hood­ed Death Eater had shout­ed, “It's the re­al one!”; how had he known? He gazed around at the ap­par­ent­ly emp­ty dark­ness and felt its men­ace. Where were they?

He clam­bered around on the seat to face for­ward and seized hold of the back of Ha­grid's jack­et.

“Ha­grid, do the drag­on-​fire thing again, let's get out of here!”

“Hold on tight, then, Har­ry!”

There was a deaf­en­ing, screech­ing roar again and the white-​blue fire shot from the ex­haust: Har­ry felt him­self slip­ping back­wards off what lit­tle of the seat he had. Ha­grid flung back­ward up­on him, bare­ly main­tain­ing his grip on the han­dle­bars –

“I think we've lost 'em Har­ry, I think we've done it!” yelled Ha­grid.

But Har­ry was not con­vinced; Fear lapped at him as he looked left and right for pur­suers he was sure would come. . . . Why had they fall­en back? One of them had still had a wand. . . . It's him. . . it's the re­al one. . . . They had said it right af­ter he had tried to Dis­arm Stan. . . .

“We're near­ly there, Har­ry, we've near­ly made it!” shout­ed Ha­grid.

Har­ry felt the bike drop a lit­tle, though the lights down on the ground still seemed re­mote as stars.

Then the scar on his fore­head burned like fire: as a Death Eater ap­peared on ei­ther side of the bike, two Killing Curs­es missed Har­ry by mil­lime­ters, cast from be­hind –

And then Har­ry saw him. Volde­mort was fly­ing like smoke on the wind, with­out broom­stick or thes­tral to hold him, his snake-​like face gleam­ing out of the black­ness, his white fin­gers rais­ing his wand again –

Ha­grid let out a bel­low of fear and steered the mo­tor­bike in­to a ver­ti­cal dive. Cling­ing on for dear life, Har­ry sent Stun­ning Spells fly­ing at ran­dom in­to the whirling night. He saw a body fly past him and knew he had hit one of them, but then he heard a bang and saw sparks from the en­gine; the mo­tor­bike spi­raled through the air, com­plete­ly out of con­trol –

Green jets of light shot past them again. Har­ry had no idea which way was up, which down: His scar was still burn­ing; he ex­pect­ed to die at any sec­ond. A hood­ed fig­ure on a broom­stick was feet from him, he saw it raise its arm –

“NO!”

With a shout of fury Ha­grid launched him­self off the bike at the Death Eater; to his hor­ror, Har­ry saw both Ha­grid and the Death Eater, falling out of sight, their com­bined weight too much for the broom­stick –

Bare­ly grip­ping the plum­met­ing bike with his knees, Har­ry heard Volde­mort scream, “Mine!”

It was over: He could not see or hear where Volde­mort was; he glimpsed an­oth­er Death Eater swoop­ing out of the way and heard, “Ava­da –”

As the pain from Har­ry's scar forced his eyes shut, his wand act­ed of its own ac­cord. He felt it drag his hand around like some great mag­net, saw a spurt of gold­en fire through his half-​closed eye­lids, heard a crack and a scream of fury. The re­main­ing Death Eater yelled; Volde­mort screamed, “NO!” Some­how, Har­ry found his nose an inch from the drag­on-​fire but­ton. He punched it with his wand-​free hand and the bike shot more flames in­to the air, hurtling straight to­ward the ground.

“Ha­grid!” Har­ry called, hold­ing on to the bike for dear life. “Ha­grid – Ac­cio Ha­grid!”

The mo­tor­bike sped up, sucked to­wards the earth. Face lev­el with the han­dle­bars, Har­ry could see noth­ing but dis­tant lights grow­ing near­er and near­er: He was go­ing to crash and there was noth­ing he could do about it. Be­hind him came an­oth­er scream, “Your wand, Sel­wyn, give me your wand!”

He felt Volde­mort be­fore he saw him. Look­ing side­ways, he stared in­to the red eyes and was sure they would be the last thing he ev­er saw: Volde­mort prepar­ing to curse him once more –

And then Volde­mort van­ished. Har­ry looked down and saw Ha­grid spread-​ea­gled on the ground be­low him. He pulled hard at the han­dle­bars to avoid hit­ting him, groped for the brake, but with an ear­split­ting, ground trem­bling crash, he smashed in­to a mud­dy pond.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER FIVE


FALL­EN WAR­RIOR



“Ha­grid?”

Har­ry strug­gled to raise him­self out of the de­bris of met­al and leather that sur­round­ed him; his hands sank in­to inch­es of mud­dy wa­ter as he tried to stand. He could not un­der­stand where Volde­mort had gone and ex­pect­ed him to swoop out of the dark­ness at any mo­ment. Some­thing hot and wet was trick­ling down his chin and from his fore­head. He crawled out of the pond and stum­bled to­ward the great dark mass on the ground that was Ha­grid.

“Ha­grid? Ha­grid, talk to me –”

But the dark mass did not stir.

“Who's there? Is it Pot­ter? Are you Har­ry Pot­ter?”

Har­ry did not rec­og­nize the man's voice. Then a wom­an shout­ed. “They've crashed. Ted! Crashed in the gar­den!”

Har­ry's head was swim­ming.

“Ha­grid,” he re­peat­ed stupid­ly, and his knees buck­led.

The next thing he knew, he was ly­ing on his back on what felt like cush­ions, with a burn­ing sen­sa­tion in his ribs and right arm. His miss­ing tooth had been re­grown. The scar on his fore­head was still throb­bing.

“Ha­grid?”

He opened his eyes and saw that he was ly­ing on a so­fa in an un­fa­mil­iar, lam­plit sit­ting room. His ruck­sack lay on the floor a short dis­tance away, wet and mud­dy. A fair-​haired, big-​bel­lied man was watch­ing Har­ry anx­ious­ly.

“Ha­grid's fine, son,” said the man, “the wife's see­ing to him now. How are you feel­ing? Any­thing else bro­ken? I've fixed your ribs, your tooth, and your arm. I'm Ted, by the way, Ted Tonks – Do­ra's fa­ther.”

Har­ry sat up too quick­ly. Lights popped in front of his eyes and he felt sick and gid­dy.

“Volde­mort –”

“Easy, now,” said Ted Tonks, plac­ing a hand on Har­ry's shoul­der and push­ing him back against the cush­ions. “That was a nasty crash you just had. What hap­pened, any­way? Some­thing go wrong with the bike? Arthur Weasley over­stretch him­self again, him and his Mug­gle con­trap­tions?”

“No,” said Har­ry, as his scar pulsed like an open wound. “Death Eaters, loads of them – we were chased –”

“Death Eaters?” said Ted sharply. “What d'you mean, Death Eaters? I thought they didn't know you were be­ing moved tonight, I thought –”

“They knew,” said Har­ry.

Ted Tonks looked up at the ceil­ing as though he could see through it to the sky above.

“Well, we know our pro­tec­tive charms hold, then, don't we? They shouldn't be able to get with­in a hun­dred yards of the place in any di­rec­tion.”

Now Har­ry un­der­stood why Volde­mort had van­ished; it had been at the point when the mo­tor­bike crossed the bar­ri­er of the Or­der's charms. He on­ly hoped they would con­tin­ue to work: He imag­ined Volde­mort, a hun­dred yards above them as they spoke, look­ing for a way to pen­etrate what Har­ry vi­su­al­ized as a great trans­par­ent bub­ble.

He swung his legs off the so­fa; he need­ed to see Ha­grid with his own eyes be­fore he would be­lieve that he was alive. He had bare­ly stood up, how­ev­er, when a door opened and Ha­grid squeezed through it, his face cov­ered in mud and blood, limp­ing a lit­tle but mirac­ulous­ly alive.

“Har­ry!”

Knock­ing over two del­icate ta­bles and an as­pidis­tra, he cov­ered the floor be­tween them in two strides and pulled Har­ry in­to a hug that near­ly cracked his new­ly re­paired ribs. “Blimey, Har­ry, how did yeh get out o' that? I thought we were both goners.”

“Yeah, me too. I can't be­lieve –”

Har­ry broke off. He had just no­ticed the wom­an who had en­tered the room be­hind Ha­grid.

“You!” he shout­ed, and he thrust his hand in­to his pock­et, but it was emp­ty.

“Your wand's here, son,” said Ted, tap­ping it on Har­ry's arm. “It fell right be­side you, I picked it up…And that's my wife you're shout­ing at.”

“Oh, I'm – I'm sor­ry.”

As she moved for­ward in­to the room, Mrs. Tonks's re­sem­blance to her sis­ter Bel­la­trix be­came much less pro­nounced: Her hair was a light’s oft brown and her eyes were wider and kinder. Nev­er­the­less, she looked a lit­tle haughty af­ter Har­ry's ex­cla­ma­tion.

“What hap­pened to our daugh­ter?” she asked. “Ha­grid said you were am­bushed; where is Nymphado­ra?”

“I don't know,” said Har­ry. “We don't know what hap­pened to any­one else.”

She and Ted ex­changed looks. A mix­ture of fear and guilt gripped Har­ry at the sight of their ex­pres­sions, if any of the oth­ers had died, it was his fault, all his fault. He had con­sent­ed to the plan, giv­en them his hair . . .

“The Portkey,” he said, re­mem­ber­ing all of a sud­den. “We've got to get back to the Bur­row and find out – then we'll be able to send you word, or – or Tonks will, once she's –”

“Do­ra'll be ok, 'Drome­da,” said Ted. “She knows her stuff, she's been in plen­ty of tight spots with the Au­rors. The Portkey's through here,” he added to Har­ry. “It's sup­posed to leave in three min­utes, if you want to take it.”

“Yeah, we do,” said Har­ry. He seized his ruck­sack, swung it on­to his shoul­ders. “I –”

He looked at Mrs. Tonks, want­ing to apol­ogize for the state of fear in which he left her and for which he felt so ter­ri­bly re­spon­si­ble, but no words oc­curred to him that he did not seem hol­low and in­sin­cere.

“I'll tell Tonks – Do­ra – to send word, when she . . . Thanks for patch­ing us up, thanks for ev­ery­thing, I –”

He was glad to leave the room and fol­low Ted Tonks along a short hall­way and in­to a bed­room. Ha­grid came af­ter them, bend­ing low to avoid hit­ting his head on the door lin­tel.

“There you go, son. That's the Portkey.”

Mr. Tonks was point­ing to a small, sil­ver-​backed hair­brush ly­ing on the dress­ing ta­ble.

“Thanks,” said Har­ry, reach­ing out to place a fin­ger on it, ready to leave.

“Wait a mo­ment,” said Ha­grid, look­ing around. “Har­ry, where's Hed­wig?”

“She . . . she got hit,” said Har­ry.

The re­al­iza­tion crashed over him: He felt ashamed of him­self as the tears stung his eyes. The owl had been his com­pan­ion, his one great link with the mag­ical world when­ev­er he had been forced to re­turn to the Durs­leys.

Ha­grid reached out a great hand and pat­ted him painful­ly on the shoul­der.

“Nev­er mind,” he said gruffly, “Nev­er mind. She had a great old life –”

“Ha­grid!” said Ted Tonks warn­ing­ly, as the hair­brush glowed bright blue, and Ha­grid on­ly just got his fore­fin­ger to it in time.

With a jerk be­hind the navel as though an in­vis­ible hook and line had dragged him for­ward, Har­ry was pulled in­to noth­ing­ness, spin­ning un­con­trol­lably, his fin­ger glued to the Portkey as he and Ha­grid hur­tled away from Mr. Tonks. Sec­ond lat­er, Har­ry's feet slammed on­to hard ground and he fell on­to his hands and knees in the yard of the Bur­row. He heard screams. Throw­ing aside the no longer glow­ing hair­brush, Har­ry stood up, sway­ing slight­ly, and saw Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny run­ning down the steps by the back door as Ha­grid, who had al­so col­lapsed on land­ing, clam­bered la­bo­ri­ous­ly to his feet.

“Har­ry? You are the re­al Har­ry? What hap­pened? Where are the oth­ers?” cried Mrs. Weasley.

“What d'you mean? Isn't any­one else back?” Har­ry pant­ed.

The an­swer was clear­ly etched in Mrs. Weasley's pale face.

“The Death Eaters were wait­ing for us,” Har­ry told her, “We were sur­round­ed the mo­ment we took off – they knew it was tonight – I don't know what hap­pened to any­one else, four of them chased us, it was all we could do to get away, and then Volde­mort caught up with us –”

He could hear the self-​jus­ti­fy­ing note in his voice, the plea for her to un­der­stand why he did not know what had hap­pened to her sons, but –

“Thank good­ness you're all right,” she said, pulling him in­to a hug he did not feel he de­served.

“Haven't go' any brandy, have yeh, Mol­ly?” asked Ha­grid a lit­tle shak­ily, “Fer medic­inal pur­pos­es?”

She could have sum­moned it by mag­ic, but as she hur­ried back to­ward the crooked house, Har­ry knew that she want­ed to hide her face. He turned to Gin­ny and she an­swered his un­spo­ken plea for in­for­ma­tion at once.

“Ron and Tonks should have been back first, but they missed their Portkey, it came back with­out them,” she said, point­ing at a rusty oil can ly­ing on the ground near­by. “And that one,” she point­ed at an an­cient sneak­er, “should have been Dad and Fred's, they were sup­posed to be sec­ond. You and Ha­grid were third and,” she checked her watch, “if they made it, George and Lupin aught to be back in about a minute.”

Mrs. Weasley reap­peared car­ry­ing a bot­tle of brandy, which she hand­ed to Ha­grid. He un­corked it and drank it straight down in one.

“Mum!” shout­ed Gin­ny point­ing to a spot sev­er­al feet away.

A blue light had ap­peared in the dark­ness: It grew larg­er and brighter, and Lupin and George ap­peared, spin­ning and then falling. Har­ry knew im­me­di­ate­ly that there was some­thing wrong: Lupin was sup­port­ing George, who was un­con­scious and whose face was cov­ered in blood.

Har­ry ran for­ward and seized George's legs. To­geth­er, he and Lupin car­ried George in­to the house and through the kitchen to the liv­ing room, where they laid him on the so­fa. As the lamp­light fell across George's head, Gin­ny gasped and Har­ry's stom­ach lurched: One of George's ears was miss­ing. The side of his head and neck were drenched in wet, shock­ing­ly scar­let blood.

No soon­er had Mrs. Weasley bent over her son that Lupin grabbed Har­ry by the up­per arm and dragged him, none too gen­tly, back in­to the kitchen, where Ha­grid was still at­tempt­ing to ease his bulk through the back door.

“Oi!” said Ha­grid in­dig­nant­ly, “Le' go of him! Le' go of Har­ry!”

Lupin ig­nored him.

“What crea­ture sat in the cor­ner the first time that Har­ry Pot­ter vis­it­ed my of­fice at Hog­warts?” he said, giv­ing Har­ry a small shake. “An­swer me!”

“A – a grindy­low in a tank, wasn't it?”

Lupin re­leased Har­ry and fell back against a kitchen cup­board.

“Wha' was tha' about?” roared Ha­grid.

“I'm sor­ry, Har­ry, but I had to check,” said Lupin terse­ly. “We've been be­trayed. Volde­mort knew that you were be­ing moved tonight and the on­ly peo­ple who could have told him were di­rect­ly in­volved in the plan. You might have been an im­pos­tor.”

“So why aren' you checkin' me?” pant­ed Ha­grid, still strug­gling with the door.

“You're half-​gi­ant,” said Lupin, look­ing up at Ha­grid. “The Polyjuice Po­tion is de­signed for hu­man use on­ly.”

“None of the Or­der would have told Volde­mort we were mov­ing tonight,” said Har­ry. The idea was dread­ful to him, he could not be­lieve it of any of them. “Volde­mort on­ly caught up with me to­ward the end, he didn't know which one I was in the be­gin­ning. If he'd been in on the plan he'd have known from the start I was the one with Ha­grid.”

“Volde­mort caught up with you?” said Lupin sharply. “What hap­pened? How did you es­cape?”

Har­ry ex­plained how the Death Eaters pur­su­ing them had seemed to rec­og­nize him as the true Har­ry, how they had aban­doned the chase, how they must have sum­moned Volde­mort, who had ap­peared just be­fore he and Ha­grid had reached the sanc­tu­ary of Tonks's par­ents.

“They rec­og­nized you? But how? What had you done?”

“I . . .” Har­ry tried to re­mem­ber; the whole jour­ney seemed like a blur of pan­ic and con­fu­sion. “I saw Stan Shun­pike . . . . You know, the bloke who was the con­duc­tor on the Knight Bus? And I tried to Dis­arm him in­stead of – well, he doesn't know what he's do­ing, does he? He must be Im­periused!”

Lupin looked aghast.

“Har­ry, the time for Dis­arm­ing is past! These peo­ple are try­ing to cap­ture and kill you! At least Stun if you aren't pre­pared to kill!”

“We were hun­dreds of feet up! Stan's not him­self, and if I Stunned him and he'd fall­en, he'd have died the same as if I'd used Ava­da Ke­davra! Ex­pel­liar­mus saved me from Volde­mort two years ago,” Har­ry added de­fi­ant­ly. Lupin was re­mind­ing him of the sneer­ing Huf­flepuff Zacharias Smith, who had jeered at Har­ry for want­ing to teach Dum­ble­dore's Army how to Dis­arm.

“Yes, Har­ry,” said Lupin with painful re­straint, “and a great num­ber of Death Eaters wit­nessed that hap­pen­ing! For­give me, but it was a very un­usu­al move then, un­der the im­mi­nent threat of death. Re­peat­ing it tonight in front of Death Eaters who ei­ther wit­nessed or heard about the first oc­ca­sion was close to sui­ci­dal!”

“So you think I should have killed Stan Shun­pike?” said Har­ry an­gri­ly.

“Of course not,” said Lupin, “but the Death Eaters – frankly, most peo­ple! – would have ex­pect­ed you to at­tack back! Ex­pel­liar­mus is a use­ful spell, Har­ry, but the Death Eaters seem to think it is your sig­na­ture move, and I urge you not to let it be­come so!”

Lupin was mak­ing Har­ry feel id­iot­ic, and yet there was still a grain of de­fi­ance in­side him.

“I won't blast peo­ple out of my way just be­cause they're there,” said Har­ry, “That's Volde­mort's job.”

Lupin's re­tort was lost: Fi­nal­ly suc­ceed­ing in squeez­ing through the door, Ha­grid stag­gered to a chair and sat down; it col­lapsed be­neath him. Ig­nor­ing his min­gled oaths and apolo­gies, Har­ry ad­dressed Lupin again.

“Will George be okay?”

All Lupin's frus­tra­tion with Har­ry seemed to drain away at the ques­tion.

“I think so, al­though there's no chance of re­plac­ing his ear, not when it's been cursed off –”

There was a scuf­fling from out­side. Lupin dived for the back door; Har­ry leapt over Ha­grid's legs and sprint­ed in­to the yard.

Two fig­ures had ap­peared in the yard, and as Har­ry ran to­ward them he re­al­ized they were Hermione, now re­turn­ing to her nor­mal ap­pear­ance, and Kings­ley, both clutch­ing a bent coat hang­er, Hermione flung her­self in­to Har­ry's arms, but Kings­ley showed no plea­sure at the sight of any of them. Over Hermione's shoul­der Har­ry saw him raise his wand and point it at Lupin's chest.

“The last words Al­bus Dum­ble­dore spoke to the pair of us!”

“'Har­ry is the best hope we have. Trust him,'” said Lupin calm­ly.

Kings­ley turned his wand on Har­ry, but Lupin said, “It's him, I've checked!”

“All right, all right!” said Kings­ley, stow­ing his wand back be­neath his cloak, “But some­body be­trayed us! They knew, they knew it was tonight!”

“So it seems,” replied Lupin, “but ap­par­ent­ly they did not re­al­ize that there would be sev­en Har­rys.”

“Small com­fort!” snarled Kings­ley. “Who else is back?”

“On­ly Har­ry, Ha­grid, George, and me.”

Hermione sti­fled a lit­tle moan be­hind her hand.

“What hap­pened to you?” Lupin asked Kings­ley.

“Fol­lowed by five, in­jured two, might've killed one,” Kings­ley reeled off, “and we saw You-​Know-​Who as well, he joined the chase halfway through but van­ished pret­ty quick­ly. Re­mus, he can –”

“Fly,” sup­plied Har­ry. “I saw him too, he came af­ter Ha­grid and me.”

“So that's why he left, to fol­low you!” said Kings­ley, “I couldn't un­der­stand why he'd van­ished. But what made him change tar­gets?”

“Har­ry be­haved a lit­tle too kind­ly to Stan Shun­pike,” said Lupin.

“Stan?” re­peat­ed Hermione. “But I thought he was in Azk­aban?”

Kings­ley let out a mirth­less laugh.

“Hermione, there's ob­vi­ous­ly been a mass break­out which the Min­istry has hushed up. Travers's hood fell off when I cursed him, he's sup­posed to be in­side too. But what hap­pened to you, Re­mus? Where's George?”

“He lost an ear,” said Lupin.

“lost an -- ?” re­peat­ed Hermione in a high voice.

“Snape's work,” said Lupin.

“Snape?” shout­ed Har­ry. “You didn't say –”

“He lost his hood dur­ing the chase. Sec­tum­sem­pra was al­ways a spe­cial­ty of Snape's. I wish I could say I'd paid him back in kind, but it was all I could do to keep George on the broom af­ter he was in­jured, he was los­ing so much blood.”

Si­lence fell be­tween the four of them as they looked up at the sky. There was no sign of move­ment; the stars stared back, un­blink­ing, in­dif­fer­ent, un­ob­scured by fly­ing friends. Where was Ron? Where were Fred and Mr. Weasley? Where were Bill, Fleur, Tonks, Mad-​Eye, and Mundun­gus?

“Har­ry, give us a hand!” called Ha­grid hoarse­ly from the door, in which he was stuck again. Glad of some­thing to do, Har­ry pulled him free, the head­ed through the emp­ty kitchen and back in­to the sit­ting room, where Mrs. Weasley and Gin­ny were still tend­ing to George. Mrs. Weasley had staunched his bleed­ing now, and by the lamp­light Har­ry saw a clean gap­ing hole where George's ear had been.

“How is he?”

Mrs. Weasley looked around and said, “I can't make it grow back, not when it's been re­moved by Dark Mag­ic. But it could've been so much worse . . . . He's alive.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Thank God.”

“Did I hear some­one else in the yard?” Gin­ny asked.

“Hermione and Kings­ley,” said Har­ry.

“Thank good­ness,” Gin­ny whis­pered. They looked at each oth­er; Har­ry want­ed to hug her, hold on to her; he did not even care much that Mrs. Weasley was there, but be­fore he could act on the im­pulse, there was a great crash from the kitchen.

“I'll prove who I am, Kings­ley, af­ter I've seen my son, now back off if you know what's good for you!”

Har­ry had nev­er heard Mr. Weasley shout like that be­fore. He burst in­to the liv­ing room, his bald patch gleam­ing with sweat, his spec­ta­cles askew, Fred right be­hind him, both pale but un­in­jured.

“Arthur!” sobbed Mrs. Weasley. “Oh thank good­ness!”

“How is he?”

Mr. Weasley dropped to his knees be­side George. For the first time since Har­ry had known him, Fred seemed to be lost for words. He gaped over the back of the so­fa at his twin's wound as if he could not be­lieve what he was see­ing.

Per­haps roused by the sound of Fred and their fa­ther's ar­rival, George stirred.

“How do you feel, Georgie?” whis­pered Mrs. Weasley.

George's fin­gers groped for the side of his head.

“Saint­like,” he mur­mured.

“What's wrong with him?” croaked Fred, look­ing ter­ri­fied. “Is his mind af­fect­ed?”

“Saint­like,” re­peat­ed George, open­ing his eyes and look­ing up at his broth­er. “You see. . . I'm holy. Ho­ley, Fred, ged­dit?”

Mrs. Weasley sobbed hard­er than ev­er. Col­or flood­ed Fred's pale face.

“Pa­thet­ic,” he told George. “Pa­thet­ic! With the whole wide world of ear-​re­lat­ed hu­mor be­fore you, you go for ho­ley?”

“Ah well,” said George, grin­ning at his tear-​soaked moth­er. “You'll be able to tell us apart now, any­way, Mum.”

He looked around.

“Hi, Har­ry – you are Har­ry, right?”

“Yeah, I am,” said Har­ry, mov­ing clos­er to the so­fa.

“Well, at least we got you back okay,” said George. “Why aren't Ron and Bill hud­dled round my sickbed?”

“They're not back yet, George,” said Mrs. Weasley. George's grin fad­ed. Har­ry glanced at Gin­ny and mo­tioned to her to ac­com­pa­ny him back out­side. As they walked through the kitchen she said in a low voice.

“Ron and Tonks should be back by now. They didn't have a long jour­ney; Aun­tie Muriel's not that far from here.”

Har­ry said noth­ing. He had been try­ing to keep fear at bay ev­er since reach­ing the Bur­row, but now it en­veloped him, seem­ing to crawl over his skin, throb­bing in his chest, clog­ging his throat. As they walked down the back steps in­to the dark yard, Gin­ny took his hand.

Kings­ley was strid­ing back­ward and for­ward, glanc­ing up at the sky ev­ery time he turned. Har­ry was re­mind­ed of Un­cle Ver­non pac­ing the liv­ing room a mil­lion years ago. Ha­grid, Hermione, and Lupin stood shoul­der to shoul­der, gaz­ing up­ward in si­lence. None of them looked around when Har­ry and Gin­ny joined their silent vig­il.

The min­utes stretched in­to what might as well have been years. The slight­est breath of wind made them all jump and turn to­ward the whis­per­ing bush or tree in the hope that one of the miss­ing Or­der mem­bers might leap un­scathed from its leaves –

And then a broom ma­te­ri­al­ized di­rect­ly above them and streaked to­ward the ground –

“It's them!” screamed Hermione.

Tonks land­ed in a long skid that sent earth and peb­bles ev­ery­where.

“Re­mus!” Tonks cried as she stag­gered off the broom in­to Lupin's arms. His face was set and white: He seemed un­able to speak, Ron tripped dazed­ly to­ward Har­ry and Hermione.

“You're okay,” he mum­bled, be­fore Hermione flew at him and hugged him tight­ly.

“I thought – I thought –”

“'M all right,” said Ron, pat­ting her on the back. “'M fine.”

“Ron was great,” said Tonks warm­ly, re­lin­quish­ing her hold on Lupin. “Won­der­ful. Stunned one of the Death Eaters, straight to the head, and when you're aim­ing at a mov­ing tar­get from a fly­ing broom –”

“You did?” said Hermione, gaz­ing up at Ron with her arms still around his neck.

“Al­ways the tone of sur­prise,” he said a lit­tle grumpi­ly, break­ing free. “Are we the last back?”

“No,” said Gin­ny, “we're still wait­ing for Bill and Fleur and Mad-​Eye and Mundun­gus. I'm go­ing to tell Mum and Dad you're okay, Ron –”

She ran back in­side.

“So what kept you? What hap­pened?” Lupin sound­ed al­most an­gry at Tonks.

“Bel­la­trix,” said Tonks. “She wants me quite as much as she wants Har­ry, Re­mus, She tried very hard to kill me. I just wish I'd got her, I owe Bel­la­trix. But we def­inite­ly in­jured Rodol­phus . . . . Then we got to Ron's Aun­tie Muriel's and we missed our Portkey and she was fuss­ing over us –”

A mus­cle was jump­ing in Lupin's jaw. He nod­ded, but seemed un­able to say any­thing else.

“So what hap­pened to you lot?” Tonks asked, turn­ing to Har­ry, Hermione, and Kings­ley.

They re­count­ed the sto­ries of their own jour­neys, but all the time the con­tin­ued ab­sence of Bill, Fleur, Mad-​Eye, and Mundun­gus seemed to lie up­on them like a frost, its icy bite hard­er and hard­er to ig­nore.

“I'm go­ing to have to get back to Down­ing Street, I should have been there an hour ago,” said Kings­ley fi­nal­ly, af­ter a last sweep­ing gaze at the sky. “Let me know when they're back,.”

Lupin nod­ded. With a wave to the oth­ers, Kings­ley walked away in­to the dark­ness to­ward the gate. Har­ry thought he heard the faintest pop as Kings­ley Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed just be­yond the Bur­row's bound­aries.

Mr. And Mrs. Weasley came rac­ing down the back steps, Gin­ny be­hind them. Both par­ents hugged Ron be­fore turn­ing to Lupin and Tonks.

“Thank you,” said Mrs. Weasley, “for our sons.”

“Don't be sil­ly, Mol­ly,” said Tonks at once.

“How's George?” asked Lupin.

“What's wrong with him?” piped up Ron.

“He's lost –”

But the end of Mrs. Weasley's sen­tence was drowned in a gen­er­al out­cry. A thes­tral had just soared in­to sight and land­ed a few feet from them. Bill and Fleur slid from its back, windswept but un­hurt.

“Bill! Thank God, thank God –”

Mrs. Weasley ran for­ward, but the hug Bill be­stowed up­on her was per­func­to­ry. Look­ing di­rect­ly at his fa­ther, he said, “Mad-​Eye's dead.”

No­body spoke, no­body moved. Har­ry felt as though some­thing in­side him was falling, falling through the earth, leav­ing him for­ev­er.

“We saw it,” said Bill; Fleur nod­ded, tear tracks glit­ter­ing on her cheeks in the light from the kitchen win­dow. “It hap­pened just af­ter we broke out of the cir­cle: Mad-​Eye and Dung were close by us, they were head­ing north too. Volde­mort – he can fly – went straight for them. Dung pan­icked, I heard him cry out, Mad-​Eye tried to stop him, but he Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed. Volde­mort's curse hit Mad-​Eye full in the face, he fell back­ward off his broom and – there was noth­ing we could do, noth­ing, we had half a dozen of them on our own tail –”

Bill's voice broke.

“Of course you couldn't have done any­thing,” said Lupin.

They all stood look­ing at each oth­er. Har­ry could not quite com­pre­hend it. Mad-​Eye dead; it could not be . . . . Mad-​Eye, so tough, so brave, the con­sum­mate sur­vivor . . .

At last it seemed to dawn on ev­ery­one, though no­body said it, that there was no point of wait­ing in the yard any­more, and in si­lence they fol­lowed Mr. And Mrs. Weasley back in­to the Bur­row, and in­to the liv­ing room, where Fred and George were laugh­ing to­geth­er.

“What's wrong?” said Fred, scan­ning their faces as they en­tered, “What's hap­pened? Who's --?”

“Mad-​Eye,” said Mr. Weasley, “Dead.”

The twins' grins turned to gri­maces of shock. No­body seemed to know what to do. Tonks was cry­ing silent­ly in­to a hand­ker­chief: She had been close to Mad-​Eye, Har­ry knew, his fa­vorite and his pro­tégée at the Min­istry of Mag­ic. Ha­grid, who had sat down on the floor in the cor­ner where he had most space, was dab­bing at his eyes with his table­cloth-​sized hand­ker­chief.

Bill walked over to the side­board and pulled out a bot­tle of fire-​whisky and some glass­es.

“Here,” he said, and with a wave of his wand, eh sent twelve full glass­es soar­ing through the room to each of them, hold­ing the thir­teenth aloft. “Mad-​Eye.”

“Mad-​Eye,” they all said, and drank.

“Mad-​Eye,” echoed Ha­grid, a lit­tle late, with a hic­cup. The firewhisky seared Har­ry's throat. It seemed to burn feel­ing back in­to him, dis­pelling the numb­ness and sense of un­re­al­ity fir­ing him with some­thing that was like courage.

“So Mundun­gus dis­ap­peared?” said Lupin, who had drained his own glass in one.

The at­mo­sphere changed at once. Ev­ery­body looked tense, watch­ing Lupin, both want­ing him to go on, it seemed to Har­ry, and slight­ly afraid of what they might hear.

“I know what you're think­ing,” said Bill, “and I won­dered that too, on the way back here, be­cause they seemed to be ex­pect­ing us, didn't they? But Mundun­gus can't have be­trayed us. They didn't know there would be sev­en Har­rys, that con­fused them the mo­ment we ap­peared, and in case you've for­got­ten, it was Mundun­gus who sug­gest­ed that lit­tle bit of skull­dug­gery. Why wouldn't he have told them the es­sen­tial point? I think Dung pan­icked, it's as sim­ple as that. He didn't want to come in the first place, but Mad-​Eye made him, and You-​Know-​Who went straight for them. It was enough to make any­one pan­ic.”

“You-​Know-​Who act­ed ex­act­ly as Mad-​Eye ex­pect­ed him to,” sniffed Tonks. “Mad-​Eye said he'd ex­pect the re­al Har­ry to be with the tough­est, most skilled Au­rors. He chased Mad-​Eye first, and when Mundun­gus gave them away he switched to Kings­ley. . . . ”

“Yes, and zat eez all very good,” snapped Fleur, “but still eet does not ex­plain 'ow zey know we were mov­ing 'Ar­ry tonight, does eet? Some­body must 'ave been care­less. Some­body let slip ze date to an out­sider. It is ze on­ly ex­pla­na­tion for zem know­ing ze date but not ze 'ole plan.”

She glared around at them all, tear tracks still etched on her beau­ti­ful face, silent­ly dar­ing any of them to con­tra­dict her. No­body did. The on­ly sound to break the si­lence was that of Ha­grid hic­cup­ping from be­hind his hand­ker­chief. Har­ry glanced at Ha­grid, who had just risked his own life to save Har­ry's – Ha­grid, whom he loved, whom he trust­ed, who had once been tricked in­to giv­ing Volde­mort cru­cial in­for­ma­tion in ex­change for a drag­on's egg. . . .

“No,” Har­ry said aloud, and they all looked at him, sur­prised: The firewhisky seemed to have am­pli­fied his voice. “I mean . . . if some­body made a mis­take,” Har­ry went on, “and let some­thing slip, I know they didn't mean to do it. It's not their fault,” he re­peat­ed, again a lit­tle loud­er than he would usu­al­ly have spo­ken. “We've got to trust each oth­er. I trust all of you, I don't think any­one in this room would ev­er sell me to Volde­mort.”

More si­lence fol­lowed his words. They were all look­ing at him; Har­ry felt a lit­tle hot again, and drank some more firewhisky for some­thing to do. As he drank, he thought of Mad-​Eye. Mad-​Eye had al­ways been scathing about Dum­ble­dore's will­ing­ness to trust peo­ple.

“Well said, Har­ry,” said Fred un­ex­pect­ed­ly.

“Year, 'ear, 'ear,” said George, with half a glance at Fred, the cor­ner of whose mouth twitched.

Lupin was wear­ing an odd ex­pres­sion as he looked at Har­ry. It was close to pity­ing.

“You think I'm a fool?” de­mand­ed Har­ry.

“No, I think you're like James,” said Lupin, “who would have re­gard­ed it as the height of dis­hon­or to mis­trust his friends.”

Har­ry knew what Lupin was get­ting at: that his fa­ther had been be­trayed by his friend Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew. He felt ir­ra­tional­ly an­gry. He want­ed to ar­gue, but Lupin had turned away from him, set down his glass up­on a side ta­ble, and ad­dressed Bill, “There's work to do. I can ask Kings­ley whether –”

“No,” said Bill at once, “I'll do it, I'll come.”

“Where are you go­ing?” said Tonks and Fleur to­geth­er.

“Mad-​Eye's body,” said Lupin. “We need to re­cov­er it.”

“Can't it -- ?” be­gan Mrs. Weasley with an ap­peal­ing look at Bill.

“Wait?” said Bill, “Not un­less you'd rather the Death Eaters took it?”

No­body spoke. Lupin and Bill said good bye and left.

The rest of them now dropped in­to chairs, all ex­cept for Har­ry, who re­mained stand­ing. The sud­den­ness and com­plete­ness of death was with them like a pres­ence.

“I've got to go too,” said Har­ry.

Ten pairs of star­tled eyes looked at him.

“Don't be sil­ly, Har­ry,” said Mrs. Weasley, “What are you talk­ing about?”

“I can't stay here.”

He rubbed his fore­head; it was prick­ling again, he had not hurt like this for more than a year.

“You're all in dan­ger while I'm here. I don't want –”

“But don't be so sil­ly!” said Mrs. Weasley. “The whole point of tonight was to get you here safe­ly, and thank good­ness it worked. And Fleur's agreed to get mar­ried here rather than in France , we've ar­ranged ev­ery­thing so that we can all stay to­geth­er and look af­ter you –”

She did not un­der­stand; she was mak­ing him feel worse, not bet­ter.

“If Volde­mort finds out I'm here –”

“But why should he?” asked Mrs. Weasley.

“There are a dozen places you might be now, Har­ry,” said Mr. Weasley. “He's got no way of know­ing which safe house you're in.”

“It's not me I'm wor­ried for!” said Har­ry.

“We know that,” said Mr. Weasley qui­et­ly, but it would make our ef­forts tonight seem rather point­less if you left."

“Yer not goin' any­where,” growled Ha­grid. “Blimey, Har­ry, af­ter all we wen' through ter get you here?”

“Yeah, what about my bleed­ing ear?” said George, hoist­ing him­self up on his cush­ions.

“I know that –”

“Mad-​Eye wouldn't want –”

“I KNOW!” Har­ry bel­lowed.

He felt be­lea­guered and black­mailed: Did they think he did not know what they had done for him, didn't they un­der­stand that it was for pre­cise­ly that rea­son that he want­ed to go now, be­fore they had to suf­fer any more on his be­half? There was a long and awk­ward si­lence in which his scar con­tin­ued to prick­le and throb, and which was bro­ken at last by Mrs. Weasley.

“Where's Hed­wig, Har­ry?” she said coax­ing­ly. “We can put her up with Pid­wid­geon and give her some­thing to eat.”

His in­sides clenched like a fist. He could not tell her the truth. He drank the last of his firewhisky to avoid an­swer­ing.

“Wait till it gets out yeh did it again, Har­ry,” said Ha­grid. “Es­caped him, fought him off when he was right on top of yeh!”

“It wasn't me,” said Har­ry flat­ly. “It was my wand. My wand act­ed of its own ac­cord.”

Af­ter a few mo­ments, Hermione said gen­tly, “But that's im­pos­si­ble, Har­ry. You mean that you did mag­ic with­out mean­ing to; you re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “The bike was falling, I couldn't have told you where Volde­mort was, but my wand spun in my hand and found him and shot a spell at him, and it wasn't even a spell I rec­og­nized. I've nev­er made gold flames ap­pear be­fore.”

“Of­ten,” said Mr. Weasley, “when you're in a pres­sured sit­ua­tion you can pro­duce mag­ic you nev­er dreamed of. Small chil­dren of­ten find, be­fore they're trained –”

“It wasn't like that,” said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth. His scar was burn­ing. He felt an­gry and frus­trat­ed; he hat­ed the idea that they were all imag­in­ing him to have pow­er to match Volde­mort's.

No one said any­thing. He knew that they did not be­lieve him. Now that he came to think of it, he had nev­er heard of a wand per­form­ing mag­ic on its own be­fore.

His scar seared with pain, it was all he could do not to moan aloud. Mut­ter­ing about fresh air, he set down his glass and left the room.

As he crossed the yard, the great skele­tal thes­tral looked up – rus­tled its enor­mous bat­like wings, then re­sumed its graz­ing. Har­ry stopped at the gate in­to the gar­den, star­ing out at its over­grown plants, rub­bing his pound­ing fore­head and think­ing of Dum­ble­dore.

Dum­ble­dore would have be­lieved him, he knew it. Dum­ble­dore would have known how and why Har­ry's wand had act­ed in­de­pen­dent­ly, be­cause Dum­ble­dore al­ways had the an­swers; he had known about wands, had ex­plained to Har­ry the strange con­nec­tion that ex­ist­ed be­tween his wand and Volde­mort's . . . . But Dum­ble­dore, like Mad-​Eye, like Sir­ius, like his par­ents, like his poor owl, all were gone where Har­ry could nev­er talk to them again. He felt a burn­ing in his throat that had noth­ing to do with firewhisky. . . .

And then, out of nowhere, the pain in his scar peaked. As he clutched his fore­head and closed his eyes, a voice screamed in­side his head.

“You told me the prob­lem would be solved by us­ing an­oth­er's wand!”

And in­to his mind burst the vi­sion of an ema­ci­at­ed old man ly­ing in rags up­on a stone floor, scream­ing, a hor­ri­ble drawn-​out scream, a scream of un­en­durable agony. . . .

“No! No! I beg you, I beg you. . . .”

“You lied to Lord Volde­mort, Ol­li­van­der!”

“I did not. . . . I swear I did not. . . .”

“You sought to help Pot­ter, to help him es­cape me!”

“I swear I did not. . . . I be­lieved a dif­fer­ent wand would work. . . .”

“Ex­plain, then, what hap­pened. Lu­cius's wand is de­stroyed!”

“I can­not un­der­stand. . . . The con­nec­tion . . . ex­ists on­ly . . be­tween your two wands. . . .”

“Lies!”

“Please . . . I beg you. . . .”

And Har­ry saw the white hand raise its wand and felt Volde­mort's surge of vi­cious anger, saw the frail old main on the floor writhe in agony –

“Har­ry?”

It was over as quick­ly as it had come: Har­ry stood shak­ing in the dark­ness, clutch­ing the gate in­to the gar­den, his heart rac­ing, his scar still tin­gling. It was sev­er­al mo­ments be­fore he re­al­ized that Ron and Hermione were at his side.

“Har­ry, come back in the house,” Hermione whis­pered, “You aren't still think­ing of leav­ing?”

“Yeah, you've got to stay, mate,” said Ron, thump­ing Har­ry on the back.

“Are you all right?” Hermione asked, close enough now to look in­to Har­ry's face. “You look aw­ful!”

“Well,” said Har­ry shak­ily, “I prob­ably look bet­ter than Ol­li­van­der. . . .”

When he had fin­ished telling them what he had seen, Ron looked ap­palled, but Hermione down­right ter­ri­fied.

“But it was sup­posed to have stopped! Your scar – it wasn't sup­posed to do this any­more! You mustn't let that con­nec­tion open up again – Dum­ble­dore want­ed you to close your mind!”

When he did not re­ply, she gripped his arm.

“Har­ry, he's tak­ing over the Min­istry and the news­pa­pers and half the Wiz­ard­ing world! Don't let him in­side your head too!”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER SIX


THE GHOUL IN PA­JA­MAS



The shock of los­ing Mad-​Eye hung over the house in the days that fol­lowed; Har­ry kept ex­pect­ing to see him stump­ing in through the back door like the oth­er Or­der mem­bers, who passed in and out to re­lay news. Har­ry felt that noth­ing but ac­tion would as­suage his feel­ings of guilt and grief and that he ought to set out on his mis­sion to find and de­stroy Hor­crux­es as soon as pos­si­ble.

“Well, you can’t do any­thing about the” – Ron mouthed the word Hor­crux­es – “till you’re sev­en­teen. You’ve still got the Trace on you. And we can plan here as well as any­where, can’t we? Or,” he dropped his voice to a whis­per, “d’you reck­on you al­ready know where the You-​Know-​Whats are?”

“No,” Har­ry ad­mit­ted.

“I think Hermione’s been do­ing a bit of re­search,” said Ron. “She said she was sav­ing it for when you got here.”

They were sit­ting at the break­fast ta­ble; Mr. Weasley and Bill had just left for work. Mrs. Weasley had gone up­stairs to wake Hermione and Gin­ny, while Fleur had drift­ed off to take a bath.

“The Trace’ll break on the thir­ty-​first,” said Har­ry. “That means I on­ly need to stay here four days. Then I can –“

“Five days,” Ron cor­rect­ed him firm­ly. “We’ve got to stay for the wed­ding. They’ll kill us if we miss it.”

Har­ry un­der­stood “they” to mean Fleur and Mrs. Weasley.

“It’s one ex­tra day,” said Ron, when Har­ry looked muti­nous.

“Don’t they re­al­ize how im­por­tant –?”

“’Course they don’t,” said Ron. “They haven’t got a clue. And now you men­tion it, I want­ed to talk to you about that.”

Ron glanced to­ward the door in­to the hall to check that Mrs. Weasley was not re­turn­ing yet, then leaned in clos­er to Har­ry.

“Mum’s been try­ing to get it out of Hermione and me. What we’re off to do. She’ll try you next, so brace your­self. Dad and Lupin’ve both asked as well, but when we said Dum­ble­dore told you not to tell any­one ex­cept us, they dropped it. Not Mum, though. She’s de­ter­mined.”

Ron’s pre­dic­tion came true with­in hours. Short­ly be­fore lunch, Mrs. Weasley de­tached Har­ry from the oth­ers by ask­ing him to help iden­ti­fy a lone man’s sock that she thought might have come out of his ruck­sack. Once she had him cor­nered in the tiny scullery off the kitchen, she start­ed.

“Ron and Hermione seem to think that the three of you are drop­ping out of Hog­warts,” she be­gan in a light, ca­su­al tone.

“Oh,” said Har­ry. “Well, yeah. We are.”

The man­gle turned of its own ac­cord in a cor­ner, wring­ing out what looked like one of Mr. Weasley’s vests.

“May I ask why you are aban­don­ing your ed­uca­tion?” said Mrs. Weasley.

“Well, Dum­ble­dore left me . . . stuff to do,” mum­bled Har­ry. “Ron and Hermione know about it, and they want to come too.”

“What sort of ‘stuff’?”

“I’m sor­ry, I can’t –“

“Well, frankly, I think Arthur and I have a right to know, and I’m sure Mr. And Mrs. Granger would agree!” said Mrs. Weasley. Har­ry had been afraid of the “con­cerned par­ent” at­tack. He forced him­self to look di­rect­ly in­to her eyes, notic­ing as he did so that they were pre­cise­ly the same shade of brown as Gin­ny’s. This did not help.

“Dum­ble­dore didn’t want any­one else to know, Mrs. Weasley. I’m sor­ry. Ron and Hermione don’t have to come, it’s their choice –“

“I don’t see that you have to go ei­ther!” she snapped, drop­ping all pre­tense now. “You’re bare­ly of age, any of you! It’s ut­ter non­sense, if Dum­ble­dore need­ed work do­ing, he had the whole Or­der at his com­mand! Har­ry, you must have mis­un­der­stood him. Prob­ably he was telling you some­thing he want­ed done, and you took it to mean that he want­ed you–“

“I didn’t mis­un­der­stand,” said Har­ry flat­ly. “It’s got to be me.”

He hand­ed her back the sin­gle sock he was sup­posed to be iden­ti­fy­ing, which was pat­terned with gold­en bul­rush­es.

“And that’s not mine. I don’t sup­port Pud­dle­mere Unit­ed.”

“Oh, of course not,” said Mrs. Weasley with a sud­den and rather un­nerv­ing re­turn to her ca­su­al tone. “I should have re­al­ized. Well, Har­ry, while we’ve still got you here, you won’t mind help­ing with the prepa­ra­tions for Bill and Fleur’s wed­ding, will you? There’s still so much to do.”

“No – I – of course not,” said Har­ry, dis­con­cert­ed by this sud­den change of sub­ject.

“Sweet of you,” she replied, and she smiled as she left the scullery.

From that mo­ment on, Mrs. Weasley kept Har­ry, Ron and Hermione so busy with prepa­ra­tions for the wed­ding that they hard­ly had any time to think. The kind­est ex­pla­na­tion of this be­hav­ior would have been that Mrs. Weasley want­ed to dis­tract them all from thoughts of Mad-​Eye and the ter­rors of their re­cent jour­ney. Af­ter two days of non­stop cut­lery clean­ing, of col­or-​match­ing fa­vors, rib­bons, and flow­ers, of de-​gnom­ing the gar­den and help­ing Mrs. Weasley cook vast batch­es of canapés, how­ev­er, Har­ry start­ed to sus­pect her of a dif­fer­ent mo­tive. All the jobs she hand­ed out seemed to keep him, Ron, and Hermione away from one an­oth­er; he had not had a chance to speak to the two of them alone since the first night, when he had told them about Volde­mort tor­tur­ing Ol­li­van­der.

“I think Mum thinks that if she can stop the three of you get­ting to­geth­er and plan­ning, she’ll be able to de­lay you leav­ing,” Gin­ny told Har­ry in an un­der­tone, as they laid the ta­ble for din­ner on the third night of his stay.

“And then what does she think’s go­ing to hap­pen?” Har­ry mut­tered. “Some­one else might kill off Volde­mort while she’s hold­ing us here mak­ing vol-​au-​vents?”

He had spo­ken with­out think­ing, and saw Gin­ny’s face whiten.

“So it’s true?” she said. “That’s what you’re try­ing to do?”

“I – not – I was jok­ing,” said Har­ry eva­sive­ly.

They stared at each oth­er, and there was some­thing more than shock in Gin­ny’s ex­pres­sion. Sud­den­ly Har­ry be­came aware that this was the first time that he had been alone with her since those stolen hours in se­clud­ed cor­ners of the Hog­warts grounds. He was sure she was re­mem­ber­ing them too. Both of them jumped as the door opened, and Mr. Weasley, Kings­ley, and Bill walked in.

They were of­ten joined by oth­er Or­der mem­bers for din­ner now, be­cause the Bur­row had re­placed num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place as the head­quar­ters. Mr. Weasley had ex­plained that af­ter the death of Dum­ble­dore, their Se­cret-​Keep­er, each of the peo­ple to whom Dum­ble­dore had con­fid­ed Grim­mauld Place’s lo­ca­tion had be­come a Se­cret-​Keep­er in turn.

“And as there are around twen­ty of us, that great­ly di­lutes the pow­er of the Fi­delius Charm. Twen­ty times as many op­por­tu­ni­ties for the Death Eaters to get the se­cret out of some­body. We can’t ex­pect it to hold much longer.”

“But sure­ly Snape will have told the Death Eaters the ad­dress by now?” asked Har­ry.

“Well, Mad-​Eye set up a cou­ple of curs­es against Snape in case he turns up there again. We hope they’ll be strong enough both to keep him out and to bind his tongue if he tries to talk about the place, but we can’t be sure. It would have been in­sane to keep us­ing the place as head­quar­ters now that its pro­tec­tion has be­come so shaky.”

The kitchen was so crowd­ed that evening it was dif­fi­cult to ma­neu­ver knives and forks. Har­ry found him­self crammed be­side Gin­ny; the un­said things that had just passed be­tween them made him wish they had been sep­arat­ed by a few more peo­ple. He was try­ing so hard to avoid brush­ing her arm he could bare­ly cut his chick­en.

“No news about Mad-​Eye?” Har­ry asked Bill.

“Noth­ing,” replied Bill.

They had not been able to hold a fu­ner­al for Moody, be­cause Bill and Lupin had failed to re­cov­er his body. It had been dif­fi­cult to know where he might have fall­en, giv­en the dark­ness and the con­fu­sion of the bat­tle.

“The Dai­ly Prophet hasn’t said a word about him dy­ing or about find­ing the body,” Bill went on. “But that doesn’t mean much. It’s keep­ing a lot qui­et these days.”

“And they still haven’t called a hear­ing about all the un­der­age mag­ic I used es­cap­ing the Death Eaters?” Har­ry called across the ta­ble to Mr. Weasley, who shook his head.

“Be­cause they know I had no choice or be­cause they don’t want me to tell the world Volde­mort at­tacked me?”

“The lat­ter, I think. Scrim­geour doesn’t want to ad­mit that You-​Know-​Who is as pow­er­ful as he is, nor that Azk­aban’s seen a mass break­out.”

“Yeah, why tell the pub­lic the truth?” said Har­ry, clench­ing his knife so tight­ly that the faint scars on the back of his right hand stood out, white against his skin: I must not tell lies.

“Isn’t any­one at the Min­istry pre­pared to stand up to him?” asked Ron an­gri­ly.

“Of course, Ron, but peo­ple are ter­ri­fied,” Mr. Weasley replied, “ter­ri­fied that they will be next to dis­ap­pear, their chil­dren the next to be at­tacked! There are nasty ru­mors go­ing around; I for one don’t be­lieve the Mug­gle Stud­ies pro­fes­sor at Hog­warts re­signed. She hasn’t been seen for weeks now. Mean­while Scrim­geour re­mains shut up in his of­fice all day; I just hope he’s work­ing on a plan.”

There was a pause in which Mrs. Weasley mag­icked the emp­ty plates on­to the work sur­face and served ap­ple tart.

“We must de­cide ‘ow you will be dis­guised, ‘Ar­ry,” said Fleur, once ev­ery­one had pud­ding. “For ze wed­ding,” she added, when he looked con­fused. “Of course, none of our guests are Death Eaters, but we can­not guar­an­tee zat zey will not let some­thing slip af­ter zey ‘ave ‘ad cham­pagne.”

From this, Har­ry gath­ered that she still sus­pect­ed Ha­grid.

“Yes, good point,” said Mrs. Weasley from the top of the ta­ble where she sat, spec­ta­cles perched on the end of her nose, scan­ning an im­mense list of jobs that she had scrib­bled on a very long piece of parch­ment. “Now, Ron, have you cleaned out your room yet?”

“Why?” ex­claimed Ron, slam­ming his spoon down and glar­ing at his moth­er. “Why does my room have to be cleaned out? Har­ry and I are fine with it the way it is!”

“We are hold­ing your broth­er’s wed­ding here in a few days’ time, young man –“

“And are they get­ting mar­ried in my bed­room?” asked Ron fu­ri­ous­ly. “No! So why in the name of Mer­lin’s sag­gy left –“

“Don’t talk to your moth­er like that,” said Mr. Weasley firm­ly. “And do as you’re told.”

Ron scowled at both his par­ents, then picked up his spoon and at­tacked the last few mouth­fuls of his ap­ple tart.

“I can help, some of it’s my mess.” Har­ry told Ron, but Mrs. Weasley cut across him.

“No, Har­ry, dear, I’d much rather you helped Arthur much out the chick­ens, and Hermione, I’d be ev­er so grate­ful if you’d change the sheets for Mon­sieur and Madame Dela­cour; you know they’re ar­riv­ing at eleven to­mor­row morn­ing.”

But as it turned out, there was very lit­tle to do for the chick­ens. “There’s no need to, er, men­tion it to Mol­ly,” Mr. Weasley told Har­ry, block­ing his ac­cess to the coop, “but, er, Ted Tonks sent me most of what was left of Sir­ius’s bike and, er, I’m hid­ing – that’s to say, keep­ing – it in here. Fan­tas­tic stuff: There’s an ex­haust gaskin, as I be­lieve it’s called, the most mag­nif­icent bat­tery, and it’ll be a great op­por­tu­ni­ty to find out how brakes work. I’m go­ing to try and put it all back to­geth­er again when Mol­ly’s not – I mean, when I’ve got time.”

When they re­turned to the house, Mrs. Weasley was nowhere to be seen, so Har­ry slipped up­stairs to Ron’s at­tic bed­room.

“I’m do­ing it, I’m do­ing – ! Oh, it’s you,” said Ron in re­lief, as Har­ry en­tered the room. Ron lay back down on the bed, which he had ev­ident­ly just va­cat­ed. The room was just as messy as it had been all week; the on­ly chance was that Hermione was now sit­ting in the far cor­ner, her fluffy gin­ger cat, Crook­shanks, at her feet, sort­ing books, some of which Har­ry rec­og­nized as his own, in­to two enor­mous piles.

“Hi, Har­ry,” she said, as he sat down on his camp bed.

“And how did you man­age to get away?”

“Oh, Ron’s mum for­got that she asked Gin­ny and me to change the sheets yes­ter­day,” said Hermione. She threw Nu­merol­ogy and Gram­mat­ica on­to one pile and The Rise and Fall of the Dark Arts on­to the oth­er.

“We were just talk­ing about Mad-​Eye,” Ron told Har­ry. “I reck­on he might have sur­vived.”

“But Bill saw him hit by the Killing Curse,” said Har­ry.

“Yeah, but Bill was un­der at­tack too,” said Ron. “How can he be sure what he saw?”

“Even if the Killing Curse missed, Mad-​Eye still fell about a thou­sand feet,” said Hermione, now weight Quid­ditch Teams of Britain and Ire­land in her hand.

“He could have used a Shield Charm –“

“Fleur said his wand was blast­ed out of his hand,” said Har­ry.

“Well, all right, if you want him to be dead,” said Ron grumpi­ly, punch­ing his pil­low in­to a more com­fort­able shape.

“Of course we don’t want him to be dead!” said Hermione, look­ing shocked. “It’s dread­ful that he’s dead! But we’re be­ing re­al­is­tic!”

For the first time, Har­ry imag­ined Mad-​Eye’s body, bro­ken as Dum­ble­dore’s had been, yet with that one eye still whizzing in its sock­et. He felt a stab of re­vul­sion mixed with a bizarre de­sire to laugh.

“The Death Eaters prob­ably ti­died up af­ter them­selves, that’s why no one’s found him,” said Ron wise­ly.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “Like Bar­ty Crouch, turned in­to a bone and buried in Ha­grid’s front gar­den. They prob­ably trans­fig­ured Moody and stuffed him –“

“Don’t!” squealed Hermione. Star­tled, Har­ry looked over just in time to see her burst in­to tears over her copy of Spell­man’s Syl­labary.

“Oh no,” said Har­ry, strug­gling to get up from the old camp bed. “Hermione, I wasn’t try­ing to up­set –“

But with a great creak­ing of rusty bed­springs, Ron bound­ed off the bed and got there first. One arm around Hermione, he fished in his jeans pock­et and with­drew a re­volt­ing-​look­ing hand­ker­chief that he had used to clean out the oven ear­li­er. Hasti­ly pulling out his wand, he point­ed it at the rag and said, “Ter­geo.”

The wand si­phoned off most of the grease. Look­ing rather pleased with him­self, Ron hand­ed the slight­ly smok­ing hand­ker­chief to Hermione.

“Oh . . . thanks, Ron. . . . I’m sor­ry. . . .” She blew her nose and hic­cupped. “It’s just so awf-​ful, isn’t it? R-​right af­ter Dum­ble­dore . . . I j-​just n-​nev­er imag­ined Mad-​Eye dy­ing, some­how, he seemed so tough!”

“Yeah, I know,” said Ron, giv­ing her a squeeze. “But you know what he’d say to us if he was here?”

“’C-​con­stant vig­ilance,’” said Hermione, mop­ping her eyes.

“That’s right,” said Ron, nod­ding. “He’d tell us to learn from what hap­pened to him. And what I’ve learned is not to trust that cow­ard­ly lit­tle squit, Mundun­gus.”

Hermione gave a shaky laugh and leaned for­ward to pick up two more books. A sec­ond lat­er, Ron had snatched his arm back from around her shoul­ders; she had dropped The Mon­ster of Mon­sters on his foot. The book had bro­ken free from its re­strain­ing belt and snapped vi­cious­ly at Ron’s an­kle.

“I’m sor­ry, I’m sor­ry!” Hermione cried as Har­ry wrenched the book from Ron’s leg and retied it shut.

“What are you do­ing with all those books any­way?” Ron asked, limp­ing back to his bed.

“Just try­ing to de­cide which ones to take with us,” said Hermione, “When we’re look­ing for the Hor­crux­es.”

“Oh, of course,” said Ron, clap­ping a hand to his fore­head. “I for­got we’ll be hunt­ing down Volde­mort in a mo­bile li­brary.”

“Ha ha,” said Hermione, look­ing down at Spell­man’s Syl­labary. “I won­der . . . will we need to trans­late runes? It’s pos­si­ble. . . . I think we’d bet­ter take it, to be safe.”

She dropped the syl­labary on­to the larg­er of the two piles and picked up Hog­warts, A His­to­ry.

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry.

He had sat up straight. Ron and Hermione looked at him with sim­ilar mix­tures of res­ig­na­tion and de­fi­ance.

“I know you said af­ter Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al that you want­ed to come with me,” Har­ry be­gan.

“Here he goes,” Ron said to Hermione, rolling his eyes.

“As we knew he would,” she sighed, turn­ing back to the books. “You know, I think I will take Hog­warts, A His­to­ry. Even if we’re not go­ing back there, I don’t think I’d feel right if I didn’t have it with –“

“Lis­ten!” said Har­ry again.

“No, Har­ry, you lis­ten,” said Hermione. “We’re com­ing with you. That was de­cid­ed months ago – years, re­al­ly.”

“But –“

“Shut up,” Ron ad­vised him.

“– are you sure you’ve thought this through?” Har­ry per­sist­ed.

“Let’s see,” said Hermione, slam­ming Trav­els with Trolls on­to the dis­card­ed pile with a rather fierce look. “I’ve been pack­ing for days, so we’re ready to leave at a mo­ment’s no­tice, which for your in­for­ma­tion has in­clud­ed do­ing some pret­ty dif­fi­cult mag­ic, not to men­tion smug­gling Mad-​Eye’s whole stock of Polyjuice Po­tion right un­der Ron’s mum’s nose.

“I’ve al­so mod­ified my par­ents’ mem­ories so that they’re con­vinced they’re re­al­ly called Wen­dell and Mon­ica Wilkins, and that their life’s am­bi­tion is to move to Aus­tralia, which they have now done. That’s to make it more dif­fi­cult for Volde­mort to track them down and in­ter­ro­gate them about me – or you, be­cause un­for­tu­nate­ly, I’ve told them quite a bit about you.

“As­sum­ing I sur­vive our hunt for the Hor­crux­es, I’ll find Mum and Dad and lift the en­chant­ment. If I don’t – well, I think I’ve cast a good enough charm to keep them safe and hap­py. Wen­dell and Mon­ica Wilkins don’t know that they’ve got a daugh­ter, you see.”

Hermione’s eyes were swim­ming with tears again. Ron got back off the bed, put his arm around her once more, and frowned at Har­ry as though re­proach­ing him for lack of tact. Har­ry could not think of any­thing to say, not least be­cause it was high­ly un­usu­al for Ron to be teach­ing any­one else tact.

“I – Hermione, I’m sor­ry – I didn’t –“

“Didn’t re­al­ize that Ron and I know per­fect­ly well what might hap­pen if we come with you? Well, we do. Ron, show Har­ry what you’ve done.”

“Nah, he’s just eat­en,” said Ron.

“Go on, he needs to know!”

“Oh, all right. Har­ry, come here.”

For the sec­ond time Ron with­drew his arm from around Hermione and stumped over to the door.

“C’mon.”

“Why?” Har­ry asked, fol­low­ing Ron out of the room on­to the tiny land­ing.

“De­scen­do,” mut­tered Ron, point­ing his wand at the low ceil­ing. A hatch opened right over their heads and a lad­der slid down to their feet. A hor­ri­ble, half-​suck­ing, half-​moan­ing sound came out of the square hole, along with an un­pleas­ant smell like open drains.

“That’s your ghoul, isn’t it?” asked Har­ry, who had nev­er ac­tu­al­ly met the crea­ture that some­times dis­rupt­ed the night­ly si­lence.

“Yeah, it is,” said Ron, climb­ing the lad­der. “Come and have a look at him.”

Har­ry fol­lowed Ron up the few short steps in­to the tiny at­tic space. His head and shoul­ders were in the room be­fore he caught sight of the crea­ture curled up a few feet from him, fast asleep in the gloom with its large mouth wide open.

“But it . . . it looks . . . do ghouls nor­mal­ly wear pa­ja­mas?”

“No,” said Ron. “Nor have they usu­al­ly got red hair or that num­ber of pus­tules.”

Har­ry con­tem­plat­ed the thing, slight­ly re­volt­ed. It was hu­man in shape and size, and was wear­ing what, now that Har­ry’s eyes be­came used to the dark­ness, was clear­ly an old pair of Ron’s pa­ja­mas. He was al­so sure that ghouls were gen­er­al­ly rather slimy and bald, rather than dis­tinct­ly hairy and cov­ered in an­gry pur­ple blis­ters.

“He’s me, see?” said Ron.

“No,” said Har­ry. “I don’t.”

“I’ll ex­plain it back in my room, the smell’s get­ting to me,” said Ron. They climbed back down the lad­der, which Ron re­turned to the ceil­ing, and re­joined Hermione, who was still sort­ing books.

“Once we’ve left, the ghoul’s go­ing to come and live down here in my room,” said Ron. “I think he’s re­al­ly look­ing for­ward to it – well, it’s hard to tell, be­cause all he can do is moan and drool – but he nods a lot when you men­tion it. Any­way, he’s go­ing to be me with spat­ter­groit. Good, eh?”

Har­ry mere­ly looked his con­fu­sion.

“It is!” said Ron, clear­ly frus­trat­ed that Har­ry had not grasped the bril­liance of the plan. “Look, when we three don’t turn up at Hog­warts again, ev­ery­one’s go­ing to think Hermione and I must be with you, right? Which means the Death Eaters will go straight for our fam­ilies to see if they’ve got in­for­ma­tion on where you are.”

“But hope­ful­ly it’ll look like I’ve gone away with Mum and Dad; a lot of Mug­gle-​borns are talk­ing about go­ing in­to hid­ing at the mo­ment,” said Hermione.

“We can’t hide my whole fam­ily, it’ll look too fishy and they can’t all leave their jobs,” said Ron. “So we’re go­ing to put out the sto­ry that I’m se­ri­ous­ly ill with spat­ter­groit, which is why I can’t go back to school. If any­one comes call­ing to in­ves­ti­gate, Mum or Dad can show them the ghoul in my bed, cov­ered in pus­tules. Spat­ter­groit’s re­al­ly con­ta­gious, so they’re not go­ing to want to go near him. It won’t mat­ter that he can’t say any­thing, ei­ther, be­cause ap­par­ent­ly you can’t once the fun­gus has spread to your uvu­la.”

“And your mum and dad are in on this plan?” asked Har­ry.

“Dad is. He helped Fred and George trans­form the ghoul. Mum . . . well, you’ve seen what she’s like. She won’t ac­cept we’re go­ing till we’re gone.”

There was si­lence in the room, bro­ken on­ly by gen­tle thuds as Hermione con­tin­ued to throw books on­to one pile or the oth­er. Ron sat watch­ing her, and Har­ry looked from one to the oth­er, un­able to say any­thing. The mea­sure they had tak­en to pro­tect their fam­ilies made him re­al­ize, more than any­thing else could have done, that they re­al­ly were go­ing to come with him and that they knew ex­act­ly how dan­ger­ous that would be. He want­ed to tell them what that meant to him, but he sim­ply could not find words im­por­tant enough.

Through the si­lence came the muf­fled sounds of Mrs. Weasley shout­ing from four floors be­low.

“Gin­ny’s prob­ably left a speck of dust on a poxy nap­kin ring,” said Ron. “I dun­no why the Dela­cours have got to come two days be­fore the wed­ding.”

“Fleur’s sis­ter’s a brides­maid, she needs to be here for the re­hearsal, and she’s too young to come on her own,” said Hermione, as she pored in­de­ci­sive­ly over Break with a Ban­shee.

“Well, guests aren’t go­ing to help Mum’s stress lev­els,” said Ron.

“What we re­al­ly need to de­cide,” said Hermione, toss­ing De­fen­sive Mag­ical The­ory in­to the bin with­out a sec­ond glance and pick­ing up An Ap­praisal of Mag­ical Ed­uca­tion in Eu­rope, “is where we’re go­ing af­ter we leave here. I know you said you want­ed to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low first, Har­ry, and I un­der­stand why, but . . . well . . . shouldn’t we make the Hor­crux­es our pri­or­ity?”

“If we knew where any of the Hor­crux­es were, I’d agree with you,” said Har­ry, who did not be­lieve that Hermione re­al­ly un­der­stood his de­sire to re­turn to Go­dric’s Hol­low. His par­ents’ graves were on­ly part of the at­trac­tion: He had a strong, though in­ex­pli­ca­ble, feel­ing that the place held an­swers for him. Per­haps it was sim­ply be­cause it was there that he had sur­vived Volde­mort’s Killing Curse; now that he was fac­ing the chal­lenge of re­peat­ing the feat, Har­ry was drawn to the place where it had hap­pened, want­ing to un­der­stand.

“Don’t you think there’s a pos­si­bil­ity that Volde­mort’s keep­ing a watch on Go­dric’s Hol­low?” Hermione asked. “He might ex­pect you to go back and vis­it your par­ents’ graves once you’re free to go wher­ev­er you like?”

This had not oc­curred to Har­ry. While he strug­gled to find a coun­ter­ar­gu­ment, Ron spoke up, ev­ident­ly fol­low­ing his own train of thought.

“This R.A.B. per­son,” he said. “You know, the one who stole the re­al lock­et?”

Hermione nod­ded.

“He said in his note he was go­ing to de­stroy it, didn’t he?”

Har­ry dragged his ruck­sack to­ward him and pulled out the fake Hor­crux in which R.A.B.’s note was still fold­ed.

“’I have stolen the re­al Hor­crux and in­tend to de­stroy it as soon as I can.’” Har­ry read out.

“Well, what if he did fin­ish it off?” said Ron.

“Or she.” In­ter­posed Hermione.

“Whichev­er,” said Ron. “it’d be one less for us to do!”

“Yes, but we’re still go­ing to have to try and trace the re­al lock­et, aren’t we?” said Hermione, “to find out whether or not it’s de­stroyed.”

“And once we get hold of it, how do you de­stroy a Hor­crux?” asked Ron.

“Well,” said Hermione, “I’ve been re­search­ing that.”

“How?” asked Har­ry. “I didn’t think there were any books on Hor­crux­es in the li­brary?”

“There weren’t,” said Hermione, who had turned pink. “Dum­ble­dore re­moved them all, but he – he didn’t de­stroy them.” Ron sat up straight, wide-​eyed.

“How in the name of Mer­lin’s pants have you man­aged to get your hands on those Hor­crux books?”

“It – it wasn’t steal­ing!” said Hermione, look­ing from Har­ry to Ron with a kind of des­per­ation. “They were still li­brary books, even if Dum­ble­dore had tak­en them off the shelves. Any­way, if he re­al­ly didn’t want any­one to get at them, I’m sure he would have made it much hard­er to –“

“Get to the point!” said Ron.

“Well . . . it was easy,” said Hermione in a small voice. “I just did a Sum­mon­ing Charm. You know – Ac­cio. And – they zoomed out of Dum­ble­dore’s study win­dow right in­to the girls’ dor­mi­to­ry.”

“But when did you do this?” Har­ry asked, re­gard­ing Hermione with a mix­ture of ad­mi­ra­tion and in­creduli­ty.

“Just af­ter his – Dum­ble­dore’s – fu­ner­al,” said Hermione in an even small­er voice. “Right af­ter we agreed we’d leave school and go and look for the Hor­crux­es. When I went back up­stairs to get my things it – it just oc­curred to me that the more we knew about them, the bet­ter it would be . . . and I was alone in there . . . so I tried . . . and it worked. They flew straight in through the open win­dow and I – I packed them.”

She swal­lowed and then said im­plor­ing­ly, “I can’t be­lieve Dum­ble­dore would have been an­gry, it’s not as though we’re go­ing to use the in­for­ma­tion to make a Hor­crux, is it?”

“Can you hear us com­plain­ing?” said Ron. “Where are these books any­way?”

Hermione rum­maged for a mo­ment and then ex­tract­ed from the pile a large vol­ume, bound in fad­ed black leather. She looked a lit­tle nau­se­at­ed and held it as gin­ger­ly as if it were some­thing re­cent­ly dead.

“This is the one that gives ex­plic­it in­struc­tions on how to make a Hor­crux. Se­crets of the Dark­est Art – it’s a hor­ri­ble book, re­al­ly aw­ful, full of evil mag­ic. I won­der when Dum­ble­dore re­moved it from the li­brary. . . . if he didn’t do it un­til he was head­mas­ter, I bet Volde­mort got all the in­struc­tion he need­ed from here.”

“Why did he have to ask Slughorn how to make a Hor­crux, then, if he’d al­ready read that?” asked Ron.

“He on­ly ap­proached Slughorn to find out what would hap­pen if you split your soul in­to sev­en,” said Har­ry. “Dum­ble­dore was sure Rid­dle al­ready knew how to make a Hor­crux by the time he asked Slughorn about them. I think you’re right, Hermione, that could eas­ily have been where he got the in­for­ma­tion.”

“And the more I’ve read about them,” said Hermione, “the more hor­ri­ble they seem, and the less I can be­lieve that he ac­tu­al­ly made six. It warns in this book how un­sta­ble you make the rest of your soul by rip­ping it, and that’s just by mak­ing one Hor­crux!”

Har­ry re­mem­bered what Dum­ble­dore had said about Volde­mort mov­ing be­yond “usu­al evil.”

“Isn’t there any way of putting your­self back to­geth­er?” Ron asked.

“Yes,” said Hermione with a hol­low smile, “but it would be ex­cru­ci­at­ing­ly painful.”

“Why? How do you do it?” asked Har­ry.

“Re­morse,” said Hermione. “You’ve got to re­al­ly feel what you’ve done. There’s a foot­note. Ap­par­ent­ly the pain of it can de­stroy you. I can’t see Volde­mort at­tempt­ing it some­how, can you?”

“No,” said Ron, be­fore Har­ry could an­swer. “So does it say how to de­stroy Hor­crux­es in that book?”

“Yes,” said Hermione, now turn­ing the frag­ile pages as if ex­am­in­ing rot­ting en­trails, “be­cause it warns Dark wiz­ards how strong they have to make the en­chant­ments on them. From all that I’ve read, what Har­ry did to Rid­dle’s di­ary was one of the few re­al­ly fool­proof ways of de­stroy­ing a Hor­crux.”

“What, stab­bing it with a basilisk fang?” asked Har­ry.

“Oh well, lucky we’ve got such a large sup­ply of basilisk fangs, then,” said Ron. “I was won­der­ing what we were go­ing to do with them.”

“It doesn’t have to be a basilisk fang,” said Hermione pa­tient­ly. “It has to be some­thing so de­struc­tive that the Hor­crux can’t re­pair it­self. Basilisk ven­om on­ly has one an­ti­dote, and it’s in­cred­ibly rare –“

“– phoenix tears,” said Har­ry, nod­ding.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Hermione. “Our prob­lem is that there are very few sub­stances as de­struc­tive as basilisk ven­om, and they’re all dan­ger­ous to car­ry around with you. That’s a prob­lem we’re go­ing to have to solve, though, be­cause rip­ping, smash­ing, or crush­ing a Hor­crux won’t do the trick. You’ve got to put it be­yond mag­ical re­pair.”

“But even if we wreck the thing it lives in,” said Ron, “why can’t the bit of soul in it just go and live in some­thing else?”

“Be­cause a Hor­crux is the com­plete op­po­site of a hu­man be­ing.”

See­ing that Har­ry and Ron looked thor­ough­ly con­fused, Hermione hur­ried on. “Look, if I picked up a sword right now, Ron, and ran you through with it, I wouldn’t dam­age your soul at all.”

”Which would be a re­al com­fort to me, I’m sure,” said Ron. Har­ry laughed.

“It should be, ac­tu­al­ly! But my point is that what­ev­er hap­pens to your body, your soul will sur­vive, un­touched,” said Hermione. “But it’s the oth­er way round with a Hor­crux. The frag­ment of soul in­side it de­pends on its con­tain­er, its en­chant­ed body, for sur­vival. It can’t ex­ist with­out it.”

“That di­ary sort of died when I stabbed it,” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing ink pour­ing like blood from the punc­tured pages, and the screams of the piece of Volde­mort’s soul as it van­ished.

“And once the di­ary was prop­er­ly de­stroyed, the bit of soul trapped in it could no longer ex­ist. Gin­ny tried to get rid of the di­ary be­fore you did, flush­ing it away, but ob­vi­ous­ly it came back good as new.”

“Hang on,” said Ron, frown­ing. “The bit of soul in that di­ary was pos­sess­ing Gin­ny, wasn’t it? How does that work, then?”

“While the mag­ical con­tain­er is still in­tact, the bit of soul in­side it can flit in and out of some­one if they get too close to the ob­ject. I don’t mean hold­ing it for too long, it’s noth­ing to do with touch­ing it,” she added be­fore Ron could speak. “I mean close emo­tion­al­ly. Gin­ny poured her heart out in­to that di­ary, she made her­self in­cred­ibly vul­ner­able. You’re in trou­ble if you get too fond of or de­pen­dent on the Hor­crux.”

“I won­der how Dum­ble­dore de­stroyed the ring?” said Har­ry. “Why didn’t I ask him? I nev­er re­al­ly . . .”

His voice trailed away: He was think­ing of all the things he should have asked Dum­ble­dore, and of how, since the head­mas­ter had died, it seemed to Har­ry that he had wast­ed so many op­por­tu­ni­ties when Dum­ble­dore had been alive, to find out more . . . to find out ev­ery­thing. . . .

The si­lence was shat­tered as the bed­room door flew open with a wall-​shak­ing crash. Hermione shrieked and dropped Se­crets of the Dark­est Art; Crook­shanks streaked un­der the bed, hiss­ing in­dig­nant­ly; Ron jumped off the bed, skid­ded on a dis­card­ed Choco­late Frog wrap­per, and smacked his head on the op­po­site wall; and Har­ry in­stinc­tive­ly dived for his wand be­fore re­al­iz­ing that he was look­ing up at Mrs. Weasley, whose hair was di­sheveled and whose face was con­tort­ed with rage.

“I’m so sor­ry to break up this cozy lit­tle gath­er­ing,” she said, her voice trem­bling. “I’m sure you all need your rest . . . but there are wed­ding presents stacked in my room that need sort­ing out and I was un­der the im­pres­sion that you had agreed to help.”

“Oh yes,” said Hermione, look­ing ter­ri­fied as she leapt to her feet, send­ing books fly­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion. “we will . . . we’re sor­ry . . .”

With an an­guished look at Har­ry and Ron, Hermione hur­ried out of the room af­ter Mrs. Weasley.

“it’s like be­ing a house-​elf,” com­plained Ron in an un­der­tone, still mas­sag­ing his head as he and Har­ry fol­lowed. “Ex­cept with­out the job sat­is­fac­tion. The soon­er this wed­ding’s over, the hap­pi­er, I’ll be.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “then we’ll have noth­ing to do ex­cept find Hor­crux­es. . . . It’ll be like a hol­iday, won’t it?”

Ron start­ed to laugh, but at the sight of the enor­mous pile of wed­ding presents wait­ing for them in Mrs. Weasley’s room, stopped quite abrupt­ly.

The Dela­cours ar­rived the fol­low­ing morn­ing at eleven o’ clock. Har­ry, Ron, Hermione and Gin­ny were feel­ing quite re­sent­ful to­ward Fleur’s fam­ily by this time; and it was with ill grace that Ron stumped back up­stairs to put on match­ing socks, and Har­ry at­tempt­ed to flat­ten his hair. Once they had all been deemed smart enough, they trooped out in­to the sun­ny back­yard to await the vis­itors.

Har­ry had nev­er seen the place look­ing so tidy. The rusty caul­drons and old Welling­ton boots that usu­al­ly lit­tered the steps by the back door were gone, re­placed by two new Flut­ter­by bush­es stand­ing ei­ther side of the door in large pots; though there was no breeze, the leaves waved lazi­ly, giv­ing an at­trac­tive rip­pling ef­fect. The chick­ens had been shut away, the yard had been swept, and the near­by gar­den had been pruned, plucked, and gen­er­al­ly spruced up, al­though Har­ry, who liked it in its over­grown state, thought that it looked rather for­lorn with­out its usu­al con­tin­gent of ca­per­ing gnomes.

He had lost track of how many se­cu­ri­ty en­chant­ments had been placed up­on the Bur­row by both the Or­der and the Min­istry; all he knew was that it was no longer pos­si­ble for any­body to trav­el by mag­ic di­rect­ly in­to the place. Mr. Weasley had there­fore gone to meet the Dela­cours on top of a near­by hill, where they were to ar­rive by Portkey. The first sound of their ap­proach was an un­usu­al­ly high-​pitched laugh, which turned out to be com­ing from Mr. Weasley, who ap­peared at the gate mo­ments lat­er, laden with lug­gage and lead­ing a beau­ti­ful blonde wom­an in long, leaf green robes, who could be Fleur’s moth­er.

“Ma­man!” cried Fleur, rush­ing for­ward to em­brace her. “Pa­pa!”

Mon­sieur Dela­cour was nowhere near as at­trac­tive as his wife; he was a head short­er and ex­treme­ly plumb, with a lit­tle, point­ed black beard. How­ev­er, he looked good-​na­tured. Bounc­ing to­wards Mrs. Weasley on high-​heeled boots, he kissed her twice on each cheek, leav­ing her flus­tered.

“You ‘ave been so much trou­ble,” he said in a deep voice. “Fleur tells us you ‘ave been work­ing very ‘ard.”

“Oh, it’s been noth­ing, noth­ing!” trilled Mrs. Weasley. “No trou­ble at all!”

Ron re­lieved his feel­ings by aim­ing a kick at a gnome who was peer­ing out from be­hind one of the new Flut­ter­by bush­es.

“Dear la­dy!” said Mon­sieur Dela­cour, still hold­ing Mrs. Weasley’s hand be­tween his own two plump ones and beam­ing. “We are most hon­ored at the ap­proach­ing union of our two fam­ilies! Let me present my wife, Apolline.”

Madame Dela­cour glid­ed for­ward and stooped to kiss Mrs. Weasley too.

“En­chan­tée,” she said. “Your ‘us­band ‘as been telling us such amus­ing sto­ries!”

Mr. Weasley gave a ma­ni­acal laugh; Mrs. Weasley threw him a look, up­on which he be­came im­me­di­ate­ly silent and as­sumed an ex­pres­sion ap­pro­pri­ate to the sickbed of a close friend.

“And, of course, you ‘ave met my lee­tle daugh­ter, Gabrielle!” said Mon­sieur Dela­cour. Gabrielle was Fleur in minia­ture; eleven years old, with waist-​length hair of pure, sil­very blonde, she gave Mrs. Weasley a daz­zling smile and hugged her, then threw Har­ry a glow­ing look, bat­ting her eye­lash­es. Gin­ny cleared her throat loud­ly.

“Well, come in, do!” said Mrs. Weasley bright­ly, and she ush­ered the Dela­cours in­to the house, with many “No, please!”s and “Af­ter you!”s and “Not at all!”s.

The Dela­cours, it soon tran­spired, were help­ful, pleas­ant guests. They were pleased with ev­ery­thing and keen to as­sist with the prepa­ra­tions for the wed­ding. Mon­sieur Dela­cour pro­nounced ev­ery­thing from the seat­ing plan to the brides­maids’ shoes “Char­mant!” Madame Dela­cour was most ac­com­plished at house­hold spells and had the oven prop­er­ly cleaned in a trice; Gabrielle fol­lowed her el­der sis­ter around, try­ing to as­sist in any way she could and jab­ber­ing away in rapid French.

On the down­side, the Bur­row was not built to ac­com­mo­date so many peo­ple. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley were now sleep­ing in the sit­ting room, hav­ing shout­ed down Mon­sieur and Madame Dela­cour’s protests and in­sist­ed they take their bed­room. Gabrielle was sleep­ing with Fleur in Per­cy’s old room, and Bill would be shar­ing with Char­lie, his best man, once Char­lie ar­rived from Ro­ma­nia. Op­por­tu­ni­ties to make plans to­geth­er be­came vir­tu­al­ly nonex­is­tent, and it was in des­per­ation that Har­ry, Ron and Hermione took to vol­un­teer­ing to feed the chick­ens just to es­cape the over­crowd­ed house.

“But she still won’t leave us alone!” snarled Ron, and their sec­ond at­tempt at a meet­ing in the yard was foiled by the ap­pear­ance of Mrs. Weasley car­ry­ing a large bas­ket of laun­dry in her arms.

“Oh, good, you’ve fed the chick­ens,” she called as she ap­proached them. “We’d bet­ter shut them away again be­fore the men ar­rive to­mor­row . . . to put up the tent for the wed­ding,” she ex­plained, paus­ing to lean against the hen­house. She looked ex­haust­ed. “Mil­la­mant’s Mag­ic Mar­quees . . . they’re very good. Bill’s es­cort­ing them. . . . You’d bet­ter stay in­side while they’re here, Har­ry. I must say it does com­pli­cate or­ga­niz­ing a wed­ding, hav­ing all these se­cu­ri­ty spells around the place.”

“I’m sor­ry,” said Har­ry humbly.

“Oh, don’t be sil­ly, dear!” said Mrs. Weasley at once. “I didn’t mean – well, your safe­ty’s much more im­por­tant! Ac­tu­al­ly, I’ve been want­ing to ask you how you want to cel­ebrate your birth­day, Har­ry. Sev­en­teen, af­ter all, it’s an im­por­tant day. . . .”

“I don’t want a fuss,” said Har­ry quick­ly, en­vis­ag­ing the ad­di­tion­al strain this would put on them all. “Re­al­ly, Mrs. Weasley, just a nor­mal din­ner would be fine. . . . It’s the day be­fore the wed­ding. . . .”

“Oh, well, if you’re sure, dear. I’ll in­vite Re­mus and Tonks, shall I? And how about Ha­grid?”

“That’d be great,” said Har­ry. “But please, don’t go to loads of trou­ble.”

“Not at all, not at all . . . It’s no trou­ble. . . .”

She looked at him, a long, search­ing look, then smiled a lit­tle sad­ly, straight­ened up, and walked away. Har­ry watched as she waved her wand near the wash­ing line, and the damp clothes rose in­to the air to hang them­selves up, and sud­den­ly he felt a great wave of re­morse for the in­con­ve­nience and the pain he was giv­ing her.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER SEVEN


THE WILL OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE



He was walk­ing along a moun­tain road in the cool blue light of dawn. Far be­low, swathed in mist, was the shad­ow of a small town. Was the man he sought down there, the man he need­ed so bad­ly he could think of lit­tle else, the man who held the an­swer, the an­swer to his prob­lem...?

“Oi, wake up.”

Har­ry opened his eyes. He was ly­ing again on the camp bed in Ron's dingy at­tic room. The sun had not yet risen and the room was still shad­owy. Pig­wid­geon was asleep with his head un­der his tiny wing. The scar on Har­ry's fore­head was prick­ling.

“You were mut­ter­ing in your sleep.”

“Was I?”

“Yeah. 'Gre­gorovitch.' You kept say­ing 'Gre­gorovitch.'”

Har­ry was not wear­ing his glass­es; Ron's face ap­peared slight­ly blurred.

“Who's Gre­gorovitch?”



“I dun­no, do I?” You were the one say­ing it."

Har­ry rubbed his fore­head, think­ing. He had a vague idea he had heard the name be­fore, but he could not think where.

“I think Volde­mort's look­ing for him.”

“Poor bloke,” said Ron fer­vent­ly.

Har­ry sat up, still rub­bing his scar, now wide awake. He tried to re­mem­ber ex­act­ly what he had seen in the dream, but all that came back was a moun­tain­ous hori­zon and the out­line of the lit­tle vil­lage cra­dled in a deep val­ley.

“I think he's abroad.”

“Who, Gre­gorovitch?”

“Volde­mort. I think he's some­where abroad, look­ing for Gre­gorovitch. It didn't look like any­where in Britain.”

“You reck­on you were see­ing in­to his mind again?”

Ron sound­ed wor­ried.

“Do me a fa­vor and don't tell Hermione,” said Har­ry. “Al­though how she ex­pects me to stop see­ing stuff in my sleep...”

He gazed up at lit­tle Pig­wid­geon's cage, think­ing...Why was the name “Gre­gorovitch” fa­mil­iar?

“I think,” he said slow­ly, “he's got some­thing to do with Quid­ditch. There's some con­nec­tion, but I can't--I can't think what it is.”

“Quid­ditch?” said Ron. “Sure you're not think­ing of Gor­gov­itch?”

“Who?”

“Dragomir Gor­gov­itch, Chas­er, trans­ferred to the Chud­ley Can­nons for a record fee two years ago. Record hold­er for most Quaf­fle drops in a sea­son.”

“No,” said Har­ry. “I'm def­inite­ly not think­ing of Gor­gov­itch.”



“I try not to ei­ther,” said Ron. “Well, hap­py birth­day any­way.”

“Wow -- that's right, I for­got! I'm sev­en­teen!”

Har­ry seized the wand ly­ing be­side his camp bed, point­ed it at the clut­tered desk where he had left his glass­es, and said, “Ac­cio Glass­es!” Al­though they were on­ly around a foot away, there was some­thing im­mense­ly sat­is­fy­ing about see­ing them zoom to­ward him, at least un­til they poked him in the eye.

“Slick,” snort­ed Ron.

Rev­el­ing in the re­moval of his Trace, Har­ry sent Ron's pos­ses­sions fly­ing around the room, caus­ing Pig­wid­geon to wake up and flut­ter ex­cit­ed­ly around his cage. Har­ry al­so tried ty­ing the laces of his train­ers by mag­ic (the re­sul­tant knot took sev­er­al min­utes to un­tie by hand) and, pure­ly for the plea­sure of it, turned the or­ange robes on Ron's Chud­ley Can­nons posters bright blue.

“I'd do your fly by hand, though,” Ron ad­vised Har­ry, snig­ger­ing when Har­ry im­me­di­ate­ly checked it. “Here's your present. Un­wrap it up here, it's not for my moth­er's eyes.”

“A book?” said Har­ry as he took the rect­an­gu­lar par­cel. “Bit of a de­par­ture from tra­di­tion, isn't it?”

“This isn't your av­er­age book,” said Ron. “It'd pure gold: Twelve Fail-​Safe Ways to Charm Witch­es. Ex­plains ev­ery­thing you need to know about girls. If on­ly I'd had this last year I'd have known ex­act­ly how to get rid of Laven­der and I would've known how to get go­ing with... Well, Fred and George gave me a copy, and I've learned a lot. You'd be sur­prised, it's not all about wand­work, ei­ther.”

When they ar­rived in the kitchen they found a pile of presents wait­ing on the ta­ble. Bill and Mon­sieur Dela­cour were fin­ish­ing their break­fasts, while Mrs. Weasley stood chat­ting to them over the fry­ing pan.



“Arthur told me to wish you a hap­py sev­en­teenth, Har­ry,” said Mrs. Weasley, beam­ing at him. “He had to leave ear­ly for work, but he'll be back for din­ner. That's our present on top.”

Har­ry sat down, took the square par­cel she had in­di­cat­ed, and un­wrapped it. In­side was a watch very like the one Mr. and Mrs. Weasley had giv­en Ron for his sev­en­teenth; it was gold, with stars cir­cling around the race in­stead of hands.

“It's tra­di­tion­al to give a wiz­ard a watch when he comes of age,” said Mrs. Weasley, watch­ing him anx­ious­ly from be­side the cook­er. “I'm afraid that one isn't new like Ron's, it was ac­tu­al­ly my broth­er Fabi­an's and he wasn't ter­ri­bly care­ful with his pos­ses­sions, it's a bit dent­ed on the back, but--”

The rest of her speech was lost; Har­ry had got up and hugged her. He tried to put a lot of un­said things in­to the hug and per­haps she un­der­stood them, be­cause she pat­ted his cheek clum­si­ly when he re­leased her, then waved her wand in a slight­ly ran­dom way, caus­ing half a pack of ba­con to flop out of the fry­ing pan on­to the floor.

“Hap­py birth­day, Har­ry!” said Hermione, hur­ry­ing in­to the kitchen and adding her own present to the top of the pile. “It's not much, but I hope you like it. What did you get him?” she added to Ron, who seemed not to hear her.

“Come on, then, open Hermione's!” said Ron.

She had bought him a new Sneako­scope. The oth­er pack­ages con­tained an en­chant­ed ra­zor from Bill and Fleur (“Ah yes, zis will give you ze smoothest shave you will ev­er 'ave,” Mon­sieur Dela­cour as­sured him, “but you must tell it clear­ly what you want...ozzer­wise you might find you 'ave a lee­tle less hair zan you would like...”), choco­lates from the Dela­cours, and an enor­mous box of the lat­est Weasleys' Wiz­ard Wheezes mer­chan­dise from Fred and George.



Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione did not linger at the ta­ble, as the ar­rival of Madame Dela­cour, Fleur, and Gabrielle made the kitchen un­com­fort­ably crowd­ed.

“I'll pack these for you,” Hermione said bright­ly, tak­ing Har­ry's presents out of his arms as the three of them head­ed back up­stairs. “I'm near­ly done, I'm just wait­ing for the rest of your un­der­pants to come out of the wash, Ron--”

Ron's splut­ter was in­ter­rupt­ed by the open­ing of a door on the first-​floor land­ing.

“Har­ry, will you come in here a mo­ment?”

It was Gin­ny. Ron came to an abrupt halt, but Hermione took him by the el­bow and tugged him on up the stairs. Feel­ing ner­vous, Har­ry fol­lowed Gin­ny in­to her room.

He had nev­er been in­side it be­fore. It was small, but bright. There was a large poster of the Wiz­ard­ing band the Weird Sis­ters on one wall, and a pic­ture of Gwenog Jones, Cap­tain of the all-​witch Quid­ditch team the Holy­head Harpies, on the oth­er. A desk stood fac­ing the open win­dow, which looked out over the or­chard where he and Gin­ny had once played a two-​a-​side Quid­ditch with Ron and Hermione, and which now housed a large, pearly white mar­quee. The gold­en flag on top was lev­el with Gin­ny's win­dow.

Gin­ny looked up in­to Har­ry's face, took a deep breath, and said, “Hap­py sev­en­teenth.”

“Yeah...thanks.”

She was look­ing at him steadi­ly; he how­ev­er, found it dif­fi­cult to look back at her; it was like gaz­ing in­to a bril­liant light.

“Nice view,” he said fee­bly, point­ing to­ward with win­dow.

She ig­nored this. He could not blame her.

“I couldn't think what to get you,” she said.



“You didn't have to get me any­thing.”

She dis­re­gard­ed this too.

“I didn't know what would be use­ful. Noth­ing too big, be­cause you wouldn't be able to take it with you.”

He chanced a glance at her. She was not tear­ful; that was one of the many won­der­ful things about Gin­ny, she was rarely weepy. He had some­times thought that hav­ing six broth­ers must have tough­ened her up.

She took a step clos­er to him.

“So then I thought, I'd like you to have some­thing to re­mem­ber me by, you know, if you meet some veela when you're off do­ing what­ev­er you're do­ing.”

“I think dat­ing op­por­tu­ni­ties are go­ing to be pret­ty thin on the ground, to be hon­est.”

“There's the sil­ver lin­ing I've been look­ing for,” she whis­pered, and then she was kiss­ing him as she had nev­er kissed him be­fore, and Har­ry was kiss­ing her back, and it was bliss­ful obliv­ion bet­ter than firewhisky; she was the on­ly re­al thing in the world, Gin­ny, the feel of her, one hand at her back and one in her long, sweet-​smelling hair--

The door banged open be­hind them and they jumped apart.

“Oh,” said Ron point­ed­ly. “Sor­ry.”

“Ron!” Hermione was just be­hind him, slight out of breath. There was a strained si­lence, then Gin­ny had said in a flat lit­tle voice,

“Well, hap­py birth­day any­way, Har­ry.”

Ron's ears were scar­let; Hermione looked ner­vous. Har­ry want­ed to slam the door in their faces, but it felt as though a cold draft had en­tered the room when the door opened, and his shin­ing mo­ment had popped like a soap bub­ble. All the rea­sons for end­ing his re­la­tion­ship with Gin­ny, for stay­ing well away from her, seemed to have slunk in­side the room with Ron, and all hap­py for­get­ful­ness was gone.

He looked at Gin­ny, want­ing to say some­thing, though he hard­ly knew what, but she had turned her back on him. He thought that she might have suc­cumbed, for once, to tears. He could not do any­thing to com­fort her in front of Ron.

“I'll see you lat­er,” he said, and fol­lowed the oth­er two out of the bed­room.

Ron marched down­stairs, though the still-​crowd­ed kitchen and in­to the yard, and Har­ry kept pace with him all the way, Hermione trot­ting along be­hind them look­ing scared.

Once he reached the seclu­sion of the fresh­ly mown lawn, Ron round­ed on Har­ry.

“You ditched her. What are you do­ing now, mess­ing her around?”

“I'm not mess­ing her around,” said Har­ry, as Hermione caught up with them.

“Ron--”

But Ron held up a hand to si­lence her.

“She was re­al­ly cut up when you end­ed it--”

“So was I. You know why I stopped it, and it wasn't be­cause I want­ed to.”

“Yeah, but you go snog­ging her now and she's just go­ing to get her hopes up again--”

“She's not an id­iot, she knows it can't hap­pen, she's not ex­pect­ing us to--to end up mar­ried, or--”

As he said it, a vivid pic­ture formed in Har­ry's mind of Gin­ny in a white dress, mar­ry­ing a tall, face­less, and un­pleas­ant stranger.



In one spi­ral­ing mo­ment it seemed to hit him: Her fu­ture was free and un­en­cum­bered, where­as his...he could see noth­ing but Volde­mort ahead.

“If you keep grop­ing her ev­ery chance you get--”

“It won't hap­pen again,” said Har­ry harsh­ly. The day was cloud­less, but he felt as though the sun had gone in. “Okay?”

Ron looked half re­sent­ful, half sheep­ish; he rocked back­ward and for­ward on his feet for a mo­ment, then said, “Right then, well, that's...yeah.”

Gin­ny did not seek an­oth­er one-​to-​one meet­ing with Har­ry for the rest of the day, nor by any look or ges­ture did she show that they had shared more than po­lite con­ver­sa­tion in her room. Nev­er­the­less, Char­lie's ar­rival came as a re­lief to Har­ry. It pro­vid­ed a dis­trac­tion, watch­ing Mrs. Weasley force Char­lie in­to a chair, raise her wand threat­en­ing­ly, and an­nounce that he was about to get a prop­er hair­cut.

As Har­ry's birth­day din­ner would have stretched the Bur­row's kitchen to break­ing point even be­fore the ar­rival of Char­lie, Lupin, Tonks, and Ha­grid, sev­er­al ta­bles were placed end to end in the gar­den. Fred and George be­witched a num­ber of pur­ple lanterns all em­bla­zoned with a large num­ber 17, to hang in midair over the guests. Thanks to Mrs. Weasley's min­is­tra­tions, George's wound was neat and clean, but Har­ry was not yet used to the dark hole in the side of his head, de­spite the twins' many jokes about it.

Hermione made pur­ple and gold stream­ers erupt from the end of her wand and drape them­selves ar­tis­ti­cal­ly over the trees and bush­es.

“Nice,” said Ron, as with one fi­nal flour­ish of her wand, Hermione



turned the leaves on the crabap­ple tree to gold. “You've re­al­ly got an eye for that sort of thing.”

“Thank you, Ron!” said Hermione, look­ing both pleased and a lit­tle con­fused. Har­ry turned away, smil­ing to him­self. He had a fun­ny no­tion that he would find a chap­ter on com­pli­ments when he found time to pe­ruse his copy of Twelve Fail-​Safe Ways to Charm Witch­es; he caught Gin­ny's eye and grinned at her be­fore re­mem­ber­ing his promise to Ron and hur­ried­ly strik­ing up a con­ver­sa­tion with Mon­sieur Dela­cour.

“Out of the way, out of the way!” sang Mrs. Weasley, com­ing through the gate with what ap­peared to be a gi­ant, beach-​ball-​sized Snitch float­ing in front of her. Sec­onds lat­er Har­ry re­al­ized that it was his birth­day cake, which Mrs. Weasley was sus­pend­ing with her wand, rather than risk car­ry­ing it over the un­even ground. When the cake had fi­nal­ly land­ed in the mid­dle of the ta­ble, Har­ry said,

“That looks amaz­ing, Mrs. Weasley.”

“Oh, it's noth­ing, dear,” she said fond­ly. Over her shoul­der, Ron gave Har­ry the thumbs-​up and mouthed, Good one.

By sev­en o'clock all the guests had ar­rived, led in­to the house by Fred and George, who had wait­ed for them at the end of the lane. Ha­grid had hon­ored the oc­ca­sion by wear­ing his best, and hor­ri­ble, hairy brown suit. Al­though Lupin smiled as he shook Har­ry's hand, Har­ry thought he looked rather un­hap­py. It was all very odd; Tonks, be­side him, looked sim­ply ra­di­ant.

“Hap­py birth­day, Har­ry,” she said, hug­ging him tight­ly.

“Sev­en­teen, eh!” said Ha­grid as he ac­cept­ed a buck­et-​sized glass of wine from Fred. “Six years ter the day since we met, Har­ry, d'yeh re­mem­ber it?”



“Vague­ly,” said Har­ry, grin­ning up at him. “Didn't you smash down the front door, give Dud­ley a pig's tail, and tell me I was a wiz­ard?”

“I forge' the de­tails,” Ha­grid chor­tled. “All righ', Ron, Hermione?”

“We're fine,” said Hermione. “How are you?”

“Ar, not bad. Bin busy, we got some new­born uni­corns. I'll show yeh when yeh get back--” Har­ry avoid­ed Ron's and Hermione's gazes as Ha­grid rum­maged in his pock­et. “Here. Har­ry -- couldn't think what ter get teh, but then I re­mem­bered this.” He pulled out a small, slight­ly fur­ry draw­string pouch with a long string, ev­ident­ly in­tend­ed to be worn around the neck. “Moke­skin. Hide any­thin' in there an' no one but the own­er can get it out. They're rare, them.”

“Ha­grid, thanks!”

“'S'noth­in',” said Ha­grid with a wave of a dust­bin-​lid-​sized hand. “An' there's Char­lie! Al­ways liked him -- hey! Char­lie!”

Char­lie ap­proached, run­ning his hand slight­ly rue­ful­ly over his new, bru­tal­ly short hair­cut. He was short­er than Ron, thick­set, with a num­ber of burns and scratch­es up his mus­cley arms.

“Hi, Ha­grid, how's it go­ing?”

“Bin meanin' ter write fer ages. How's Nor­bert doin'?”

“Nor­bert?” Char­lie laughed. “The Nor­we­gian Ridge­back? We call her Nor­ber­ta now.”

“Wha -- Nor­bert's a girl?”

“Oh yeah,” said Char­lie.

“How can you tell?” asked Hermione.

“They're a lot more vi­cious,” said Char­lie. He looked over his shoul­der and dropped his voice. “Wish Dad would hur­ry up and get here. Mum's get­ting edgy.”



They all looked over at Mrs. Weasley. She was try­ing to talk to Madame Dela­cour while glanc­ing re­peat­ed­ly at the gate.

“I think we'd bet­ter start with­out Arthur,” she called to the gar­den at large af­ter a mo­ment or two. “He must have been held up at -- oh!”

They all saw it at the same time: a streak of light that came fly­ing across the yard and on­to the ta­ble, where it re­solved it­self in­to a bright sil­ver weasel, which stood on its hind legs and spoke with Mr. Weasley's voice.

“Min­is­ter of Mag­ic com­ing with me.”

The Pa­tronus dis­solved in­to thin air, leav­ing Fleur's fam­ily peer­ing in as­ton­ish­ment at the place where it had van­ished.

“We shouldn't be here,” said Lupin at once. “Har­ry -- I'm sor­ry -- I'll ex­plain some oth­er time--”

He seized Tonks’s wrist and pulled her away; they reached the fence, climbed over it, and van­ished from sight. Mrs. Weasley looked be­wil­dered.

“The Min­is­ter -- but why--? I don't un­der­stand--”

But there was no time to dis­cuss the mat­ter; a sec­ond lat­er, Mr. Weasley had ap­peared out of thin air at the gate, ac­com­pa­nied by Ru­fus Scrim­geour, in­stant­ly rec­og­niz­able by his mane of griz­zled hair.

The two new­com­ers marched across the yard to­ward the gar­den and the lantern-​lit ta­ble, where ev­ery­body sat in si­lence, watch­ing them draw clos­er. As Scrim­geour came with­in range of the lantern light. Har­ry saw that he looked much old­er than the last time that had met, scrag­gy and grim.

“Sor­ry to in­trude,” said Scrim­geour, as he limped to a halt be­fore the ta­ble. “Es­pe­cial­ly as I can see that I am gate-​crash­ing a par­ty.”



His eyes lin­gered for a mo­ment on the gi­ant Snitch cake.

“Many hap­py re­turns.”

“Thanks,” said Har­ry.

“I re­quire a pri­vate word with you,” Scrim­geour went on. “Al­so with Mr. Ronald Weasley and Miss Hermione Granger.”

“Us?” said Ron, sound­ing sur­prised. “Why us?”

“I shall tell you that when we are some­where more pri­vate,” said Scrim­geour. "Is there such a place?' he de­mand­ed of Mr. Weasley.

“Yes, of course,” said Mr. Weasley, who looked ner­vous. “The, er, sit­ting room, why don't you use that?”

“You can lead the way,” Scrim­geour said to Ron. “There will be no need for you to ac­com­pa­ny us, Arthur.”

Har­ry saw Mr. Weasley ex­change a wor­ried look with Mrs. Weasley as he, Ron, and Hermione stood up. As they led the way back to the house in si­lence, Har­ry knew that the oth­er two were think­ing the same as he was; Scrim­geour must, some­how, had learned that the three of them were plan­ning to drop out of Hog­warts.

Scrim­geour did not speak as they all passed through the messed kitchen and in­to the Bur­row's sit­ting room. Al­though the gar­den had been full of soft gold­en evening light, it was al­ready dark in here; Har­ry flicked his wand at the oil lamps as he en­tered and they il­lu­mi­nat­ed the shab­by but cozy room. Scrim­geour sat him­self in the sag­ging arm­chair that Mr. Weasley nor­mal­ly oc­cu­pied, leav­ing Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to squeeze side by side on­to the so­fa. Once they had done so, Scrim­geour spoke.

“I have some ques­tions for the three of you, and I think it will be best if we do it in­di­vid­ual­ly. If you two” -- he point­ed at Har­ry and Hermione -- “can wait up­stairs, I will start with Ronald.”



“We're not go­ing any­where,” said Har­ry, while Hermione nod­ded vig­or­ous­ly. “You can speak to us to­geth­er, or not at all.”

Scrim­geour gave Har­ry a cold, ap­prais­ing look. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that the Min­is­ter was won­der­ing whether it was worth­while open­ing hos­til­ities this ear­ly.

“Very well then, to­geth­er,” he said, shrug­ging. He cleared his throat. “I am here, as I'm sure you know, be­cause of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore's will.”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione looked at one an­oth­er.

“A sur­prise, ap­par­ent­ly! You were not aware then that Dum­ble­dore had left you any­thing?”

“A-​all of us?” said Ron, “Me and Hermione too?”

“Yes, all of --”

But Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed.

“Dum­ble­dore died over a month ago. Why has it tak­en this long to give us what he left us?”

“Isn't it ob­vi­ous?” said Hermione, be­fore Scrim­geour could an­swer. “They want­ed to ex­am­ine what­ev­er he's left us. You had no right to do that!” she said, and her voice trem­bled slight­ly.

“I had ev­ery right,” said Scrim­geour dis­mis­sive­ly. “The De­cree for Jus­ti­fi­able Con­fis­ca­tion gives the Min­istry the pow­er the con­fis­cate the con­tents of a will--”

“That law was cre­at­ed to stop wiz­ards pass­ing on Dark ar­ti­facts,” said Hermione, “and the Min­istry is sup­posed to have pow­er­ful ev­idence that the de­ceased's pos­ses­sions are il­le­gal be­fore seiz­ing them! Are you telling me that you thought Dum­ble­dore was try­ing to pass us some­thing cursed?”

“Are you plan­ning to fol­low a ca­reer in Mag­ical Law, Miss Granger?” asked Scrim­geour.

“No, I'm not,” re­tort­ed Hermione. “I'm hop­ing to do some good in the world!”

Ron laughed. Scrim­geour's eyes flick­ered to­ward him and away again as Har­ry spoke.

“So why have you de­cid­ed to let us have our things now? Can't think of a pre­text to keep them?”

“No, it'll be be­cause thir­ty-​one days are up,” said Hermione at once. “They can't keep the ob­jects longer than that un­less they can prove they're dan­ger­ous. Right?”

“Would you say you were close to Dum­ble­dore, Ronald?” asked Scrim­geour, ig­nor­ing Hermione. Ron looked star­tled.

“Me? Not -- not re­al­ly... It was al­ways Har­ry who...”

Ron looked around at Har­ry and Hermione, to see Hermione giv­ing him a stop-​talk­ing-​now! sort of look, but the dam­age was done; Scrim­geour looked as though he had heard ex­act­ly what he had ex­pect­ed, and want­ed, to hear. He swooped like a bird of prey up­on Ron's an­swer.

“If you were not very close to Dum­ble­dore, how do you ac­count for the fact that he re­mem­bered you in his will? He made ex­cep­tion­al­ly few per­son­al be­quests. The vast ma­jor­ity of his pos­ses­sions -- his pri­vate li­brary, his mag­ical in­stru­ments, and oth­er per­son­al ef­fects -- were left to Hog­warts. Why do you think you were sin­gled out?”

“I...dun­no,” said Ron. “I...when I say we weren't close...I mean, I think he liked me...”

“You're be­ing mod­est, Ron,” said Hermione. “Dum­ble­dore was very fond of you.”

This was stretch­ing the truth to break­ing point; as far as Har­ry knew, Ron and Dum­ble­dore had nev­er been alone to­geth­er, and di­rect con­tact be­tween them had been neg­li­gi­ble. How­ev­er, Scrim­geour did not seem to be lis­ten­ing. He put his hand in­side his cloak and drew out a draw­string pouch much larg­er than the one Ha­grid had giv­en Har­ry. From it, he re­moved a scroll of parch­ment which he un­rolled and read aloud.

“'The Last Will and Tes­ta­ment of Al­bus Per­ci­val Wul­fric Bri­an Dum­ble­dore'... Yes, here we are... 'To Ronald Bil­ius Weasley, I leave my De­lu­mi­na­tor, in the hope that he will re­mem­ber me when he us­es it.'”

Scrim­geour took from the bag an ob­ject that Har­ry had seen be­fore: It looked some­thing like a sil­ver cigarette lighter, but it had, he knew, the pow­er to suck all light from a place, and re­store it, with a sim­ple click. Scrim­geour leaned for­ward and passed the De­lu­mi­na­tor to Ron, who took it and turned it over in the fin­gers look­ing stunned.

“That is a valu­able ob­ject,” said Scrim­geour, watch­ing Ron. “It may even be unique. Cer­tain­ly it is of Dum­ble­dore's own de­sign. Why would he have left you and item so rare?”

Ron shook his head, look­ing be­wil­dered.

“Dum­ble­dore must have taught thou­sands of stu­dents,” Scrim­geour per­se­vered. “Yet the on­ly ones he re­mem­bered in his will are you three. Why is that? To what use did he think you would put to the De­lu­mi­na­tor, Mr. Weasley?”

“Put out lights, I s'pose,” mum­bled Ron. “What else could I do with it?”

Ev­ident­ly Scrim­geour had no sug­ges­tions. Af­ter squint­ing at Ron for a mo­ment or tow, he turned back to Dum­ble­dore's will.

“'To Miss Hermione Jean Granger, I leave my copy of The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard, in the hope that she will find it en­ter­tain­ing and in­struc­tive.'”

Scrim­geour now pulled out of the bag a small book that looked as an­cient as the copy of Se­crets of the Dark­est Art up­stairs. Its bind­ing was stained and peel­ing in places. Hermione took it from Scrim­geour with­out a word. She held the book in her lap and gazed at it. Har­ry saw that the ti­tle was in runes; he had nev­er learned to read them. As he looked, a tear splashed on­to the em­bossed sym­bols.

“Why do you think Dum­ble­dore left you that book, Miss Granger?” asked Scrim­geour.

“He... he knew I liked books,” said Hermione in a thick voice, mop­ping her eyes with her sleeve.

“But why that par­tic­ular book?”

“I don't know. He must have thought I'd en­joy it.”

“Did you ev­er dis­cuss codes, or any means of pass­ing se­cret mes­sages, with Dum­ble­dore?”

“No, I didn't,” said Hermione, still wip­ing her eyes on her sleeve. “And if the Min­istry hasn't found any hid­den codes in this book in thir­ty-​one days, I doubt that I will.”

She sup­pressed a sob. They were wedged to­geth­er so tight­ly that Ron had dif­fi­cul­ty ex­tract­ing his arm to put it around Hermione's shoul­ders. Scrim­geour turned back to the will.

“'To Har­ry James Pot­ter,'” he read, and Har­ry's in­sides con­tract­ed with a sud­den ex­cite­ment, “'I leave the Snitch he caught in his first Quid­ditch match at Hog­warts, as a re­minder of the re­wards of per­se­ver­ance and skill.'”

As Scrim­geour pulled out the tiny, wal­nut-​sized gold­en ball, its sil­ver wings flut­tered rather fee­bly, and Har­ry could not help feel­ing a def­inite sense of an­ti­cli­max.

“Why did Dum­ble­dore leave you this Snitch?” asked Scrim­geour.

“No idea,” said Har­ry. “For the rea­sons you just read out, I sup­pose... to re­mind me what you can get if you... per­se­vere and what­ev­er it was.”

“You think this a mere sym­bol­ic keep­sake, then?”

“I sup­pose so,” said Har­ry. “What else could it be?”

“I'm ask­ing the ques­tions,” said Scrim­geour, shift­ing his chair a lit­tle clos­er to the so­fa. Dusk was re­al­ly falling out­side now; the mar­quee be­yond the win­dows tow­ered ghost­ly white over the hedge.

“I no­tice that your birth­day cake is in the shape of a Snitch,” Scrim­geour said to Har­ry. “Why is that?”

Hermione laughed de­ri­sive­ly.

“Oh, it can't be a ref­er­ence to the fact Har­ry's a great Seek­er, that's way too ob­vi­ous,” she said. “There must be a se­cret mes­sage from Dum­ble­dore hid­den in the ic­ing!”

“I don't think there's any­thing hid­den in the ic­ing,” said Scrim­geour, “but a Snitch would be a very good hid­ing place for a small ob­ject. You know why, I'm sure?”

Har­ry shrugged, Hermione, how­ev­er, an­swered: Har­ry thought that an­swer­ing ques­tions cor­rect­ly was such a deeply in­grained habit she could not sup­press the urge.

“Be­cause Snitch­es have flesh mem­ories,” she said.

“What?” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er; both con­sid­ered Hermione's Quid­ditch knowl­edge neg­li­gi­ble.

“Cor­rect,” said Scrim­geour. “A Snitch is not touched by bare skin be­fore it is re­leased, not even by the mak­er, who wears gloves. It car­ries an en­chant­ment by which it can iden­ti­fy the first hu­man to lay hands up­on it, in case of a dis­put­ed cap­ture. This Snitch” -- he held up the tiny gold­en ball -- "will re­mem­ber your touch, Pot­ter.

It oc­curs to me that Dum­ble­dore, who had prodi­gious mag­ical skill, what­ev­er his oth­er faults, might have en­chant­ed this Snitch so that it will open on­ly for you."

Har­ry's heart was beat­ing rather fast. He was sure that Scrim­geour was right. How could he avoid tak­ing the Snitch with his bare hand in front of the Min­is­ter?

“You don't say any­thing,” said Scrim­geour. “Per­haps you al­ready know what the Snitch con­tains?”

“No,” said Har­ry, still won­der­ing how he could ap­pear to touch the Snitch with­out re­al­ly do­ing so. If on­ly he knew Legili­men­cy, re­al­ly knew it, and could read Hermione's mind; he could prac­ti­cal­ly hear her brain whizzing be­side him.

“Take it,” said Scrim­geour qui­et­ly.

Har­ry met the Min­is­ter's yel­low eyes and knew he had no op­tion but to obey. He held out his hand, and Scrim­geour leaned for­ward again and place the Snitch, slow­ly and de­lib­er­ate­ly, in­to Har­ry's palm.

Noth­ing hap­pened. As Har­ry's fin­gers closed around the Snitch, its tired wings flut­tered and were still. Scrim­geour, Ron, and Hermione con­tin­ued to gaze avid­ly at the now par­tial­ly con­cealed ball, as if still hop­ing it might trans­form in some way.

“That was dra­mat­ic,” said Har­ry cool­ly. Both Ron and Hermione laughed.

“That's all, then, is it?” asked Hermione, mak­ing to raise her­self off the so­fa.

“Not quite,” said Scrim­geour, who looked bad tem­pered now. “Dum­ble­dore left you a sec­ond be­quest, Pot­ter.”

“What is it?” asked Har­ry, ex­cite­ment rekin­dling.

Scrim­geour did not both­er to read from the will this time.

“The sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or,” he said. Hermione and Ron both stiff­ened. Har­ry looked around for a sign of the ru­by-​en­crust­ed hilt, but Scrim­geour did not pull the sword from the leather pouch, which in any case looked much too small to con­tain it.

“So where is it?” Har­ry asked sus­pi­cious­ly.

“Un­for­tu­nate­ly,” said Scrim­geour, “that sword was not Dum­ble­dore's to give away. The sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or is an im­por­tant his­tor­ical ar­ti­fact, and as such, be­longs--”

“It be­longs to Har­ry!” said Hermione hot­ly. “It chose him, he was the one who found it, it came to him out of the Sort­ing Hat--”

“Ac­cord­ing to re­li­able his­tor­ical sources, the sword may present it­self to any wor­thy Gryffind­or,” said Scrim­geour. “That does not make it the ex­clu­sive prop­er­ty of Mr. Pot­ter, what­ev­er Dum­ble­dore may have de­cid­ed.” Scrim­geour scratched his bad­ly shaven cheek, scru­ti­niz­ing Har­ry. “Why do you think--?”

“--Dum­ble­dore want­ed to give me the sword?” said Har­ry, strug­gling to keep his tem­per. “Maybe he thought it would look nice on my wall.”

“This is not a joke, Pot­ter!” growled Scrim­geour. “Was it be­cause Dum­ble­dore be­lieved that on­ly the sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or could de­feat the Heir of Slytherin? Did he wish to give you that sword, Pot­ter, be­cause he be­lieved, as do many, that you are the one des­tined to de­stroy He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named?”

“In­ter­est­ing the­ory,” said Har­ry. “Has any­one ev­er tried stick­ing a sword in Volde­mort? Maybe the Min­istry should put some peo­ple on­to that, in­stead of wast­ing their time strip­ping down De­lu­mi­na­tors or cov­er­ing up break­outs from Azk­aban. So this is what you've been do­ing, Min­is­ter, shut up in your of­fice, try­ing to break open a Snitch? Peo­ple are dy­ing – I was near­ly one of them – Volde­mort chased me across three coun­tries, he killed Mad-​Eye Moody, but there's no word about any of that from the Min­istry, has there? And you still ex­pect us to co­op­er­ate with you!”

“You go too far!” shout­ed Scrim­geour, stand­ing up: Har­ry jumped to his feet too. Scrim­geour limped to­ward Har­ry and jabbed him hard in the chest with the point of his wand; It singed a hole in Har­ry's T-​shirt like a lit cigarette.

“Oi!” said Ron, jump­ing up and rais­ing his own wand, but Har­ry said,

“No! D'you want to give him an ex­cuse to ar­rest us?”

“Re­mem­bered you're not at school, have you?” said Scrim­geour breath­ing hard in­to Har­ry's face. “Re­mem­bered that I am not Dum­ble­dore, who for­gave your in­so­lence and in­sub­or­di­na­tion? You may wear that scar like a crown, Pot­ter, but it is not up to a sev­en­teen-​year-​old boy to tell me how to do my job! It's time you learned some re­spect!”

“It's time you earned it.” said Har­ry.

The floor trem­bled; there was a sound of run­ning foot­steps, then the door to the sit­ting room burst open and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley ran in.

“We --- we thought we heard --” be­gan Mr. Weasley, look­ing thor­ough­ly alarmed at the sight of Har­ry and the Min­is­ter vir­tu­al­ly nose to nose.

“—raised voic­es,” pant­ed Mrs. Weasley.

Scrim­geour took a cou­ple of steps back from Har­ry, glanc­ing at the hole he had made in Har­ry's T-​shirt. He seemed to re­gret his loss of tem­per.

“It – it was noth­ing,” he growled. “I … re­gret your at­ti­tude,” he said, look­ing Har­ry full in the face once more. “You seem to think that the Min­istry does not de­sire what you – what Dum­ble­dore – de­sired. We ought to work to­geth­er.”

“I don't like your meth­ods, Min­is­ter,” said Har­ry. “Re­mem­ber?”

For the sec­ond time, he raised his right fist and dis­played to Scrim­geour the scar that still showed white on the back of it, spelling I must not tell lies . Scrim­geour's ex­pres­sion hard­ened. He turned away with­out an­oth­er word and limped from the room. Mrs. Weasley hur­ried af­ter him; Har­ry heard her stop at the back door. Af­ter a minute or so she called, “He's gone!”

What did he want?" Mr. Weasley asked, look­ing around at Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione as Mrs. Weasley came hur­ry­ing back to them.

“To give us what Dum­ble­dore left us,” said Har­ry. “They've on­ly just re­leased the con­tent of his will.”

Out­side in the gar­den, over the din­ner ta­bles, the three ob­jects Scrim­geour had giv­en them were passed from hand to hand. Ev­ery­one ex­claimed over the De­lu­mi­na­tor and The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard and lament­ed the fact that Scrim­geour had re­fused to pass on the sword, but none of them could of­fer any sug­ges­tion as to why Dum­ble­dore would have left Har­ry an old Snitch. As Mr. Weasley ex­am­ined the De­lu­mi­na­tor for the third of fourth time, Mrs. Weasley said ten­ta­tive­ly, “Har­ry, dear, ev­ery­one's aw­ful­ly hun­gry we didn't like to start with­out you… Shall I serve din­ner now?”

They all ate rather hur­ried­ly and then af­ter a hasty cho­rus of “Hap­py Birth­day” and much gulp­ing of cake, the par­ty broke up. Ha­grid, who was in­vit­ed to the wed­ding the fol­low­ing day, but was far too bulky to sleep in the over­stretched Bur­row, left to set up a tent for him­self in a neigh­bor­ing field.

“Meet us up­stairs,” Har­ry whis­pered to Hermione, while they helped Mrs. Weasley re­store the gar­den to its nor­mal state. “Af­ter ev­ery­one's gone to bed.”

Up in the at­tic room, Ron ex­am­ined his De­lu­mi­na­tor, and Har­ry filled Ha­grid's moke­skin purse, not with gold, but with those items he most prized, ap­par­ent­ly worth­less though some of them were the Ma­raud­er's Map, the shard of Sir­ius's en­chant­ed mir­ror, and R.A.B.'s lock­et. He pulled the string tight and slipped the purse around his neck, then sat hold­ing the old Snitch and watch­ing its wings flut­ter fee­bly. At last, Hermione tapped on the door and tip­toed in­side.

“Muf­fi­ato,” she whis­pered, wav­ing her wand in the di­rec­tion of the stairs.

“Thought you didn't ap­prove of that spell?” said Ron.

“Times change,” said Hermione. “Now, show us that De­lu­mi­na­tor.”

Ron obliged at once. Hold­ing I up in front of him, he clicked it. The soli­tary lamp they had lit went out at once.

“The thing is,” whis­pered Hermione through the dark, “we could have achieved that with Pe­ru­vian In­stant Dark­ness Pow­der.”

There was a small click, and the ball of light from the lamp flew back to the ceil­ing and il­lu­mi­nat­ed them all once more.

“Still, it's cool,” said Ron, a lit­tle de­fen­sive­ly. “And from what they said, Dum­ble­dore in­vent­ed it him­self!”

“I know but, sure­ly he wouldn't have sin­gled you out in his will just to help us turn out the lights!”

“D'you think he knew the Min­istry would con­fis­cate his will and ex­am­ine ev­ery­thing he'd left us?” asked Har­ry.

“Def­inite­ly,” said Hermione. “He couldn't tell us in the will why he was leav­ing us these things, but that will doesn't ex­plain…”

“… why he couldn't have giv­en us a hint when he was alive?” asked Ron.

“Well, ex­act­ly,” said Hermione, now flick­ing through The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard. “If these things are im­por­tant enough to pass on right un­der the nose of the Min­istry, you'd think he'd have left us know why… un­less he thought it was ob­vi­ous?”

“Thought wrong, then, didn't he?” said Ron. “I al­ways said he was men­tal. Bril­liant and ev­ery­thing, but cracked. Leav­ing Har­ry an old Snitch – what the hell was that about?”

“I've no idea,” said Hermione. “When Scrim­geour made you take it, Har­ry, I was so sure that some­thing was go­ing to hap­pen!”

“Yeah, well,” said Har­ry, his pulse quick­ened as he raised the Snitch in his fin­gers. “I wasn't go­ing to try too hard in front of Scrim­geour was I?”

“What do you mean?” asked Hermione.

“The Snitch I caught in my first ev­er Quid­ditch match?” said Har­ry. “Don't you re­mem­ber?”

Hermione looked sim­ply be­mused. Ron, how­ev­er, gasped, point­ing fran­ti­cal­ly from Har­ry to the Snitch and back again un­til he found his voice.

“That was the one you near­ly swal­lowed!”

“Ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry, and with his heart beat­ing fast, he pressed his mouth to the Snitch.

It did not open. Frus­tra­tion and bit­ter dis­ap­point­ment welled up in­side him: He low­ered the gold­en sphere, but then Hermione cried out.

“Writ­ing! There's writ­ing on it, quick, look!” He near­ly dropped the Snitch in sur­prise and ex­cite­ment. Hermione was quite right. En­graved up­on the smooth gold­en sur­face, where sec­onds be­fore there had been noth­ing, were five words writ­ten in the thin, slant­ed hand­writ­ing that Har­ry rec­og­nized as Dum­ble­dore's

I open at the close.

He had bare­ly read them when the words van­ished again.

“I open at the close….” What's that sup­posed to mean?"

Hermione and Ron shook their heads, look­ing blank.

“I open at the close… at the close… I open at the close…”

But no mat­ter how of­ten they re­peat­ed the words, with many dif­fer­ent in­flec­tions, they were un­able to wring any more mean­ing from them.

“And the sword,” said Ron fi­nal­ly, when they had at last aban­doned their at­tempts to di­vine mean­ing in the Snitch's in­scrip­tion.

“Why did he want Har­ry to have the sword?”

“And why couldn't he just have told me?” Har­ry said qui­et­ly. “I was there, it was right there on the wall of his of­fice dur­ing all our talks last year! If he want­ed me to have it, why didn't he just give it to me then?”

He felt as thought he were sit­ting in an ex­am­ina­tion with a ques­tion he ought to have been able to an­swer in front of him, his brain slow and un­re­spon­sive. Was there some­thing he had missed in the long talks with Dum­ble­dore last year? Ought he to know what it all meant? Had Dum­ble­dore ex­pect­ed him to un­der­stand?

“And as for this book.” Said Hermione, “The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard … I've nev­er even heard of them!”

“You've nev­er heard of The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard?” said Ron in­cred­ulous­ly. “You're kid­ding, right?”

“No, I'm not,” said Hermione in sur­prise. “Do you know them then?”

“Well, of course I do!”

Har­ry looked up, di­vert­ed. The cir­cum­stance of Ron hav­ing read a book that Hermione had not was un­prece­dent­ed. Ron, how­ev­er, looked be­mused by their sur­prise.

“Oh come on! All the old kids' sto­ries are sup­posed to be Bee­dle's aren't they? 'The Foun­tain of Fair For­tune' … 'The Wiz­ard and the Hop­ping Pot'… 'Bab­bit­ty Rab­bit­ty and her Cack­ling Stump'…”

“Ex­cuse me?” said Hermione gig­gling. “What was the last one?”

“Come off it!” said Ron, look­ing in dis­be­lief from Har­ry to Hermione. “You must've heard of Bab­bit­ty Rab­bit­ty –”

“Ron, you know full well Har­ry and I were brought up by Mug­gles!” said Hermione. “We didn't hear sto­ries like that when we were lit­tle, we heard 'Snow White and the Sev­en Dwarves' and 'Cin­derel­la' –”

“What's that, an ill­ness?” asked Ron.

“So these are chil­dren's sto­ries?” asked Hermione, bend­ing against over the runes.

“Yeah.” Said Ron un­cer­tain­ly. “I mean, just what you hear, you know, that all these old sto­ries came from Bee­dle. I dun­no what they're like in the orig­inal ver­sions.”

“But I won­der why Dum­ble­dore thought I should read them?”

Some­thing cracked down­stairs.

“Prob­ably just Char­lie, now Mum's asleep, sneak­ing off to re­grow his hair,” said Ron ner­vous­ly.

“All the same, we should get to bed,” whis­pered Hermione. “It wouldn't do to over­sleep to­mor­row.”

“No,” agreed Ron. “A bru­tal triple mur­der by the bride­groom's moth­er might put a bit of damper on the wed­ding. I'll get the light.”

And he clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor once more as Hermione left the room.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER EIGHT


THE WED­DING



Three o’clock on the fol­low­ing af­ter­noon found Har­ry, Ron, Fred and George stand­ing out­side the great white mar­quee in the or­chard, await­ing the ar­rival of the wed­ding guests. Har­ry had tak­en a large dose of Polyjuice Po­tion and was now the dou­ble of a red­head­ed Mug­gle boy from the lo­cal vil­lage, Ot­tery St. Catch­pole, from whom Fred had stolen hairs us­ing a Sum­mon­ing Charm. The plan was to in­tro­duce Har­ry as “Cousin Barny” and trust to the great num­ber of Weasley rel­atives to cam­ou­flage him.

All four of them were clutch­ing seat­ing plans, so that they could help show peo­ple to the right seats. A host of white-​robed wait­ers had ar­rived an hour ear­li­er, along with a gold­en jack­et­ed band, and all of these wiz­ards were cur­rent­ly sit­ting a short dis­tance away un­der a tree. Har­ry could see a blue haze of pipe smoke is­su­ing from the spot. Be­hind Har­ry, the en­trance to the mar­quee re­vealed rows and rows of frag­ile gold­en chairs set on ei­ther side of a long pur­ple car­pet. The sup­port­ing poles were en­twined with white and gold flow­ers. Fred and George had fas­tened an enor­mous bunch of gold­en bal­loons over the ex­act point where Bill and Fleur would short­ly be­come hus­band and wife. Out­side, but­ter­flies and bees were hov­er­ing lazi­ly over the grass and hedgerow. Har­ry was rather un­com­fort­able. The Mug­gle boy whose ap­pear­ance he was af­fect­ing was slight­ly fat­ter than him and his dress robes felt hot and tight in the full glare of a sum­mer’s day.

“When I get mar­ried,” said Fred, tug­ging at the col­lar of his own robes, “I won’t be both­er­ing with any of this non­sense. You can all wear what you like, and I’ll put a full Body Bird Curse on Mum un­til it’s all over.”

“She wasn’t too bad this morn­ing, con­sid­er­ing,” said George. “Cried a bit about Per­cy not be­ing here, but who wants him. Oh blimey, brace your­selves, here they come, look.”

Bright­ly col­ored fig­ures were ap­pear­ing, one by one out of nowhere at the dis­tant bound­ary of the yard. With­in min­utes a pro­ces­sion had formed, which be­gan to snake its way up through the gar­den to­ward the mar­quee. Ex­ot­ic flow­ers and be­witched birds flut­tered on the witch­es’ hats, while pre­cious gems glit­tered from many of the wiz­ards’ cra­vats; a hum of ex­cit­ed chat­ter grew loud­er and loud­er, drown­ing the sound of the bees as the crowd ap­proached the tent.

“Ex­cel­lent, I think I see a few veela cousins,” said George, cran­ing his neck for a bet­ter look. “They’ll need help un­der­stand­ing our En­glish cus­toms, I’ll look af­ter them….”

“Not so fast, Your Ho­ley­ness,” said Fred, and dart­ing past the gag­gle of mid­dle-​aged witch­es head­ing for the pro­ces­sion, he said, “Here – per­me­tiez moi to as­sis­ter vous,” to a pair of pret­ty French girls, who gig­gled and al­lowed him to es­cort them in­side. George was left to deal with the mid­dle-​aged witch­es and Ron took charge of Mr. Weasley’s old Min­istry-​col­league Perkins, while a rather deaf old cou­ple fell to Har­ry’s lot.

“Wotch­er,” said a fa­mil­iar voice as he came out of the mar­quee again and found Tonks and Lupin at the front of the queue. She had turned blonde for the oc­ca­sion. “Arthur told us you were the one with the curly hair. Sor­ry about last night,” she added in a whis­per as Har­ry led them up the aisle. “The Min­istry’s be­ing very an­ti-​were­wolf at the mu­se­um and we thought our pres­ence might not do you any fa­vors.”

“It’s fine, I un­der­stand,” said Har­ry, speak­ing more to Lupin than Tonks. Lupin gave him a swift smile, but as they turned away Har­ry saw Lupin’s face fall again in­to lines of mis­ery. He did not un­der­stand it, but there was no time to dwell on the mat­ter. Ha­grid was caus­ing a cer­tain amount of dis­rup­tion. Hav­ing mis­un­der­stood Fred’s di­rec­tions as he had sat him­self, not up­on the mag­ical­ly en­larged and re­in­forced seat set aside for him in the back row, but on five sets that now re­sem­bled a large pile of gold­en match­sticks.

While Mr. Weasley re­paired the dam­age and Ha­grid shout­ed apolo­gies to any­body who would lis­ten, Har­ry hur­ried back to the en­trance to find Ron face-​to-​face with a most ec­cen­tric-​look­ing wiz­ard. Slight­ly cross-​eyed, with shoul­der-​length white hair the tex­ture of can­dyfloss, he wore a cap whose tas­sel dan­gled in front of his nose and robes of an eye-​wa­ter­ing shade of egg-​yolk yel­low. An odd sym­bol, rather like a tri­an­gu­lar eye, glis­tened from a gold­en chain around his neck.

“Xenophilius Love­good,” he said, ex­tend­ing a hand to Har­ry, “my daugh­ter and I live just over the hill, so kind of the good Weasleys to in­vite us. But I think you know my Lu­na?” he added to Ron.

“Yes,” said Ron. “Isn’t she with you?”

“She lin­gered in that charm­ing lit­tle gar­den to say hel­lo to the gnomes, such a glo­ri­ous in­fes­ta­tion! How few wiz­ards re­al­ize just how much we can learn from the wise lit­tle gnomes – or, to give them their cor­rect name, the Ger­num­bli gar­den­si.”

“Ours do know a lot of ex­cel­lent swear words,” said Ron, “but I think Fred and George taught them those.”

He led a par­ty of war­locks in­to the mar­quee as Lu­na rushed up.

“Hel­lo, Har­ry!” she said.

“Er – my name’s Bar­ry,” said Har­ry, flum­moxed.

“Oh, have you changed that too?” she asked bright­ly.

“How did you know -?”

“Oh, just your ex­pres­sion,” she said.

Like her fa­ther, Lu­na was wear­ing bright yel­low robes, which she had ac­ces­sorized with a large sun­flow­er in her hair. Once you get over the bright­ness of it all, the gen­er­al ef­fect was quite pleas­ant. At least there were no radish­es dan­gling from her ears.

Xenophilius, who was deep in con­ver­sa­tion with an ac­quain­tance, had missed the ex­change be­tween Lu­na and Har­ry. Bid­ing the wiz­ard farewell, he turned to his daugh­ter, who held up her fin­ger and said, “Dad­dy, look – one of the gnomes ac­tu­al­ly bit me.”

“How won­der­ful! Gnome sali­va is enor­mous­ly ben­efi­cial.” Said Mr. Love­good, seiz­ing Lu­na’s out­stretched fin­gers and ex­am­in­ing the bleed­ing punc­ture marks. “Lu­na, my love, if you should feel any bur­geon­ing tal­ent to­day – per­haps an un­ex­pect­ed urge to sing opera or to de­claims in Mer­mish – do not re­press it! You may have been gift­ed by the Ger­num­blies!”

Ron, pass­ing them in the op­po­site di­rec­tion let out a loud snort.

“Ron can laugh,” said Lu­na serene­ly as Har­ry led her and Xenophilius to­ward their seats, “but my fa­ther has done a lot of re­search on Ger­num­bli mag­ic.”

“Re­al­ly?” said Har­ry, who had long since de­cid­ed not to chal­lenge Lu­na or her fa­ther’s pe­cu­liar views. “Are you sure you don’t want to put any­thing on that bite, though?”

“Oh, it’s fine,” said Lu­na, suck­ing her fin­ger in a dreamy fash­ion and look­ing Har­ry up and down. “You look smart. I told Dad­dy most peo­ple would prob­ably wear dress robes, but he be­lieves you ought to wear sun col­ors to a wed­ding, for luck, you know.”

As she drift­ed off af­ter her fa­ther, Ron reap­peared with an el­der­ly witch clutch­ing his arm. Her beaky nose, red-​rimmed eyes, and leath­ery pink hat gave her the look of a bad-​tem­pered flamin­go.

“…and your hair’s much too long, Ronald, for a mo­ment I thought you were Ginevra. Mer­lin’s beard, what is Xenophilius Love­good wear­ing? He looks like an omelet. And who are you?” she barked at Har­ry.

“Oh yeah, Aun­tie Muriel, this is our cousin Barny.”

“An­oth­er Weasley? You breed like gnomes. Isn’t Har­ry Pot­ter here? I was hop­ing to meet him. I thought he was a friend of yours, Ronald, or have you mere­ly been boast­ing?”

“No – he couldn’t come –“

“Hmm. Made an ex­cuse, did he? Not as gorm­less as he looks in press pho­tographs, then. I’ve just been in­struct­ing the bride on how best to wear my tiara,” she shout­ed at Har­ry. “Gob­lin-​made, you know, and been in my fam­ily for cen­turies. She’s a good-​look­ing girl, but still – French. Well, well, find me a good seat, Ronald, I am a hun­dred and sev­en and I ought not to be on my feet too long.”

Ron gave Har­ry a mean­ing­ful look as he passed and did not reap­pear for some time. When next they met at the en­trance, Har­ry had shown a dozen more peo­ple to their places. The Mar­quee was near­ly full now and for the first time there was no queue out­side.

“Night­mare, Muriel is,” said Ron, mop­ping his fore­head on his sleeve. “She used to come for Christ­mas ev­ery year, then, thank God, she took of­fense be­cause Fred and George set off a Dung­bomb un­der her chair at din­er. Dad al­ways says she’ll have writ­ten them out of her will – like they care, they’re go­ing to end up rich­er than any­one in the fam­ily, rate they’re go­ing… Wow,” he added, blink­ing rather rapid­ly as Hermione came hur­ry­ing to­ward them. “You look great!”

“Al­ways the tone of sur­prise,” said Hermione, though she smiled. She was wear­ing a floaty, lilac-​col­ored dress with match­ing high heels; her hair was sleek and shiny. “Your Great-​Aunt Muriel doesn’t agree, I just met her up­stairs while she was giv­ing Fleur the tiara. She said, ‘Oh dear, is this the Mug­gle-​born?’ and then, ‘Bad pos­ture and skin­ny an­kles.’”

“Don’t take it per­son­al­ly, she’s rude to ev­ery­one,” said Ron.

“Talk­ing about Muriel?” in­quired George, reemerg­ing from the mar­quee with Fred. “Yeah, she’s just told me my ears are lop­sid­ed. Old bat. I wish old Un­cle Bil­ius was still with us, though; he was a right laugh at wed­dings.”

“Wasn’t he the one who saw a Grim and died twen­ty-​four hours lat­er?” asked Hermione.

“Well, yeah, he went a bit odd to­ward the end,” con­ced­ed George.

“But be­fore he went loopy he was the life and soul of the par­ty,” said Fred. “He used to down an en­tire bot­tle of firewhisky, then run on­to the dance floor, hoist up his robes, and start pulling bunch­es of flow­ers out of his –“

“Yes, he sounds a re­al charmer,” said Hermione, while Har­ry roared with laugh­ter.

“Nev­er mar­ried, for some rea­son,” said Ron.

“You amaze me,” said Hermione.

They were all laugh­ing so much that none of them no­ticed the late­com­er, a dark-​haired young man with a large, curved nose and thick black eye­brows, un­til he held out his in­vi­ta­tion to Ron and said, with his eyes on Hermione, “You look vun­der­ful.”

“Vik­tor!” she shrieked, and dropped her small bead­ed bag, which made a loud thump quite dis­pro­por­tion­ate to its size. As she scram­bled, blush­ing, to pick it up, she said “I didn’t know you were – good­ness – it’s love­ly to see – how are you?”

Ron’s ears had turned bright red again. Af­ter glanc­ing at Krum’s in­vi­ta­tion as if he did not be­lieve a word of it, he said, much too loud­ly, “how come you’re here?”

“Fleur in­vit­ed me,” said Krum, eye­brows raised.

Har­ry, who had no grudge against Krum, shook hands; then feel­ing that it would be pru­dent to re­move Krum from Ron’s vicin­ity, of­fered to show him his seat.

“Your friend is not pleased to see me,” said Krum, as they en­tered the now packed mar­quee. “Or is he a rel­ative?” he added with a glance at Har­ry’s red curly hair.

“Cousin.” Har­ry mut­tered, but Krum was not re­al­ly lis­ten­ing. His ap­pear­ance was caus­ing a stir, par­tic­ular­ly amongst the veela cousins: He was, af­ter all, a fa­mous Quid­ditch play­er. While peo­ple were still cran­ing their necks to get a good look at him, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and George came hur­ry­ing down the aisle.

“Time to sit down,” Fred told Har­ry, “or we’re go­ing to get run over by the bride.”

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione took their seats in the sec­ond row be­hind Fred and George. Hermione looked rather pink and Ron’s ears were still scar­let. Af­ter a few mo­ments he mut­tered to Har­ry, “Did you see he’s grown a stupid lit­tle beard?”

Har­ry gave a non­com­mit­tal grunt.

A sense of jit­tery an­tic­ipa­tion had filled the warm tent, the gen­er­al mur­mur­ing bro­ken by oc­ca­sion­al spurts of ex­cit­ed laugh­ter. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley strolled up the aisle, smil­ing and wav­ing at rel­atives; Mrs. Weasley was wear­ing a brand-​new set of amethyst col­ored robes with a match­ing hat.

A mo­ment lat­er Bill and Char­lie stood up at the front of the mar­quee, both wear­ing dress robes, with larg­er white ros­es in their but­ton­holes; Fred wolf-​whis­tled and there was an out­break of gig­gling from the veela cousins. Then the crowd fell silent as mu­sic swelled from what seemed to be the gold­en bal­loons.

“Ooooh!” said Hermione, swivel­ing around in her seat to look at the en­trance.

A great col­lec­tive sigh is­sued from the as­sem­bled witch­es and wiz­ards as Mon­sieur Dela­cour and Fleur came walk­ing up the aisle, Fleur glid­ing, Mon­sieur Dela­cour bounc­ing and beam­ing. Fleur was wear­ing a very sim­ple white dress and seemed to be emit­ting a strong, sil­very glow. While her ra­di­ance usu­al­ly dimmed ev­ery­one else by com­par­ison, to­day it beau­ti­fied ev­ery­body it fell up­on. Gin­ny and Gabrielle, both wear­ing gold­en dress­es, looked even pret­ti­er than usu­al and once Fleur had reached for him, Bill did not look as though he had ev­er met Fen­rit Grey­back.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men,” said a slight­ly singsong voice, and with a slight shock, Har­ry saw the same small, tufty-​hired wiz­ard who had presid­ed at Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al, now stand­ing in front of Bill and Fleur. “We are gath­ered here to­day to cel­ebrate the union of two faith­ful souls…”

“Yes, my tiara set off the whole thing nice­ly,” said Aun­tie Muriel in a rather car­ry­ing whis­per. “But I must say, Ginevra’s dress is far too low cut.”

Gin­ny glanced around, grin­ning, winked at Har­ry, then quick­ly faced the front again. Har­ry’s mind wan­dered a long way from the mar­quee, back to the af­ter­noons spent alone with Gin­ny in lone­ly parts of the school grounds. They seemed so long ago; they had al­ways seemed too good to be true, as though he had been steal­ing shin­ing hours from a nor­mal per­son’s life, a per­son with­out a light­ning-​shaped scar on his fore­head….

“Do you, William Arthur, take Fleur Is­abelle…?”

In the front row, Mrs. Weasley and Madame Dela­cour were both sob­bing qui­et­ly in­to scraps of lace. Trum­pet­like sounds from the back of the mar­quee told ev­ery­one that Ha­grid had tak­en out one of his own table­cloth-​sized hand­ker­chiefs. Hermione turned around and beamed at Har­ry; her eyes too were full of tears.

“…then I de­clare you bond­ed for life.”

The tufty-​haired wiz­ard waved his hand high over the heads of Bill and Fleur and a show­er of sil­ver stars fell up­on them, spi­ral­ing around their now en­twined fig­ures. As Fred and George led a round of ap­plause, the gold­en bal­loons over­head burst. Birds of par­adise and tiny gold­en bells flew and float­ed out of them, adding their songs and chimes to the din.

“Ladies and gen­tle­men!” called the tufty-​haired wiz­ard. “If you would please stand up!”

They all did so, Aun­tie Muriel grum­bling au­di­bly; he waved his wand again. The scars on which they had been sit­ting rose grace­ful­ly in­to the air as the can­vas walls of the mar­quee van­ished, so that they stood be­neath a canopy sup­port­ed by gold­en poles, with a glo­ri­ous view of the sun­lit or­chard and sur­round­ing coun­try­side. Next, a pool of molten gold spread from the cen­ter of the tent to form a gleam­ing dance floor; the hov­er­ing chairs grouped them­selves around small, white-​clothed ta­bles, which all float­ed grace­ful­ly back to earth round it, and the gold­en-​jack­et­ed hand trooped to­ward a podi­um.

“Smooth,” said Ron ap­prov­ing­ly as the wait­ers popped up on all sides, some hear­ing sil­ver trays of pump­kin juice, but­ter­beer, and firewhisky, oth­ers tot­ter­ing piles of tarts and sand­wich­es.

“We should go and con­grat­ulate them!” said Hermione, stand­ing on tip­toe to see the place where Bill and Fleur had van­ished amid a crowd of well-​wish­ers.

“We’ll have time lat­er,” shrugged Ron, snatch­ing three but­ter­beers from a pass­ing tray and hand­ing one to Har­ry. “Hermione, cop hold, let’s grab a ta­ble…. Not there! Nowhere near Muriel –“

Ron led the way across the emp­ty dance floor, glanc­ing left and right as he went; Har­ry felt sure that he was keep­ing an eye out for Krum. By the time they had reached the oth­er side of the mar­quee, most of the ta­bles were oc­cu­pied: The emp­ti­est was the one where Lu­na sat alone.

“All right if we join you?” asked Ron.

“Oh yes,” she said hap­pi­ly. “Dad­dy’s just gone to give Bill and Fleur our present.”

“What is it, a life­time’s sup­ply of Gur­dy­roots?” asked Ron.

Hermione aimed a kick at him un­der the ta­ble, but caught Har­ry in­stead. Eyes wa­ter­ing in pain, Har­ry lost track of the con­ver­sa­tion for a few mo­ments.

The band had be­gun to play, Bill and Fleur took to the dance floor first, to great ap­plause; af­ter a while, Mr. Weasley led Madame Dela­cour on­to the floor, fol­lowed by Mr. Weasley and Fleur’s fa­ther.

“I like this song,” said Lu­na, sway­ing in time to the walt­zlike tune, and a few sec­onds lat­er she stood up and glid­ed on­to the dance floor, where she re­volved on the spot, quite alone, eyes closed and wav­ing her arms.

“She’s great isn’t she?” said Ron ad­mir­ing­ly. “Al­ways good val­ue.”

But the smile van­ished from his face at once: Vik­tor Krum had dropped in­to Lu­na’s va­cant seat. Hermione looked plea­sur­ably flus­tered but this time Krum had not come to com­pli­ment her. With a scowl on his face he said, “Who is that man in the yel­low?”

“That’s Xenophilius Love­good, he’s the fa­ther of a friend of ours,” said Ron. His pug­na­cious tone in­di­cat­ed that they were not about to laugh at Xenophilius, de­spite the clear provo­ca­tion. “Come and dance,” he added abrupt­ly to Hermione.

She looked tak­en aback, but pleased too, and got up. They van­ished to­geth­er in­to the grow­ing throng on the dance floor.

“Ah, they are to­geth­er now?” asked Krum, mo­men­tar­ily dis­tract­ed.

“Er – sort of,” said Har­ry.

“Who are you?” Krum asked.

“Barny Weasley.”

They shook hands.

“You, Barny – you know this man Love­good well?”

“No, I on­ly met him to­day. Why?”

Krum glow­ered over the top of his drink, watch­ing Xenophilius, who was chat­ting to sev­er­al war­locks on the oth­er side of the dance floor.

“Be­cause,” said Krum, “If he vus not a guest of Fleur’s I vould dud him, here and now, for veer­ing that filthy sign up­on his chest.”

“Sign?” said Har­ry, look­ing over at Xenophilius too. The strange tri­an­gu­lar eye was gleam­ing on his chest. “Why? What’s wrong with it?”

“Grindel­vald. That is Grindel­vald’s sign.”

“Grindel­wald… the Dark wiz­ard Dum­ble­dore de­feat­ed?”

“Ex­act­ly.”

Krum’s jaw mus­cles worked as if he were chew­ing, then he said, “Grindel­vald killed many peo­ple, my grand­fa­ther, for in­stance. Of course, he vos nev­er pow­er­ful in this coun­try, they said he feared Dum­ble­dore – and right­ly, see­ing how he vos fin­ished. But this” – he point­ed a fin­ger at Xenophilius – “this is his sym­bol, I rec­og­nized it at vunce: Grindel­vald carved it in­to a vall at Durm­strang ver he vos a pupil there. Some id­iots copied it on­to their books and clothes think­ing to shock, make them­selves im­pres­sive – un­til those of us who had lost fam­ily mem­bers to Grindel­vald taught them bet­ter.”

Krum cracked his knuck­les men­ac­ing­ly and glow­ered at Xenophilius. Har­ry felt per­plexed. It seemed in­cred­ibly un­like­ly that Lu­na’s fa­ther was a sup­port­er of the Dark Arts, and no­body else in the tent seemed to have rec­og­nized the tri­an­gu­lar, fin­like shape.

“Are you – er – quite sure it’s Grindel­wald’s -?”

“I am not mis­tak­en,” said Krum cold­ly. “I walked past that sign for sev­er­al years, I know it vell.”

“Well, there’s a chance,” said Har­ry, “that Xenophilius doesn’t ac­tu­al­ly know what the sym­bol means, the Love­goods are quite… un­usu­al. He could have eas­ily picked it up some­where and think it’s a cross sec­tion of the head of a Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack or some­thing.”

“The cross sec­tion of a vot?”

“Well, I don’t know what they are, but ap­par­ent­ly he and his daugh­ter go on hol­iday look­ing for them….”

Har­ry felt he was do­ing a bad job ex­plain­ing Lu­na and her fa­ther.

“That’s her,” he said, point­ing at Lu­na, who was still danc­ing alone, wav­ing her arms around her head like some­one at­tempt­ing to beat off midges.

“Vy is she do­ing that?” asked Krum.

“Prob­ably try­ing to get rid of a Wrack­spurt,” said Har­ry, who rec­og­nized the symp­toms.

Krum did not seem to know whether or not Har­ry was mak­ing fun of him. He drew his hand from in­side his robe and tapped it men­ac­ing­ly on his thighs; sparks flew out of the end.

“Gre­gorovitch!” said Har­ry loud­ly, and Krum start­ed, but Har­ry was too ex­cit­ed to care; the mem­ory had come back to him at the sight of Krum’s wand: Ol­li­van­der tak­ing it and ex­am­in­ing it care­ful­ly be­fore the Tri­wiz­ard Tour­na­ment.

“Vot about him?” asked Krum sus­pi­cious­ly.

“He’s a wand­mak­er!”

“I know that,” said Krum.

“He made your wand! That’s why I thought – Quid­ditch –“

Krum was look­ing more and more sus­pi­cious.

“How do you know Gre­gorovitch made my wand?”

“I…I read it some­where, I think,” said Har­ry. “In a – a fan mag­azine,” he im­pro­vised wild­ly and Krum looked mol­li­fied.

“I had not re­al­ized I ev­er dis­cussed my vand with fans,” he said.

“So… er… where is Gre­gorow­itch these days?”

Krum looked puz­zled.

“He re­tired sev­er­al years ago. I was one of the last to pur­chase a Gre­gorovitch vand. They are the best –al­though I know, of course, that your Britons set much store by Ol­li­van­der.”

Har­ry did not an­swer. He pre­tend­ed to watch the dancers, like Krum, but he was think­ing hard. So Volde­mort was look­ing for a cel­ebrat­ed wand­mak­er and Har­ry did not have to search far for a rea­son. It was sure­ly be­cause of what Har­ry’ wand had done on the night that Volde­mort pur­sued him across the skies. The hol­ly and phoenix feath­er wand had con­quered the bor­rowed wand, some thing that Ol­li­van­der had not an­tic­ipat­ed or un­der­stood. Would Gre­gorow­itch know bet­ter? Was he tru­ly more skilled than Ol­li­van­der, did he know se­crets of wands that Ol­li­van­der did not?

“This girl is very nice-​look­ing,” Krum said, re­call­ing Har­ry to his sur­round­ings. Krum was point­ing at Gin­ny, who had just joined Lu­na. “She is al­so a rel­ative of yours?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, sud­den­ly ir­ri­tat­ed, “and she’s see­ing some­one. Jeal­ous type. Big bloke. You wouldn’t want to cross him.”

Krum grunt­ed.

“Vot,” he said, drain­ing his gob­let and get­ting to his feet again, “is the point of be­ing an in­ter­na­tion­al Quid­ditch play­er if all the good-​look­ing girls are tak­en?”

And he strode off leav­ing Har­ry to take a sand­wich from a pass­ing wait­er and make his way around the edge of the crowd­ed dance floor. He want­ed to find Ron, to tell him about Gre­gorovitch, but he was danc­ing with Hermione out in the mid­dle of the floor. Har­ry leaned up against one of the gold­en pil­lars and watched Gin­ny, who was now danc­ing with Fred and George’s friend Lee Jor­dan, try­ing not to feel re­sent­ful about the promise he had giv­en Ron.

He had nev­er been to a wed­ding be­fore, so he could not judge how Wiz­ard­ing cel­ebra­tions dif­fered from Mug­gle ones, though he was pret­ty sure that the lat­ter would not in­volve a wed­ding cake topped with two mod­el phoenix­es that took flight when the cake was cut, or bot­tles of cham­pagne that float­ed un­sup­port­ed through the crowd. As the evening drew in, and moths be­gan to swoop un­der the canopy, now lit with float­ing gold­en lanterns, the rev­el­ry be­came more and more un­con­tained. Fred and George had long since dis­ap­peared in­to the dark­ness with a pair of Fleur’s cousins; Char­lie, Ha­grid, and a squat wiz­ard in a pur­ple porkpie hat were singing “Odo the Hero” in the cor­ner.

Wan­der­ing through the crowd so as to es­cape a drunk­en un­cle of Ron’s who seemed un­sure whether or not Har­ry was his son, Har­ry spot­ted an old wiz­ard sit­ting alone at a ta­ble. His cloud of white hair made him look rather like an aged dan­de­lion clock and was topped by a moth-​eat­en fez. He was vague­ly fa­mil­iar: Rack­ing his brains, Har­ry sud­den­ly re­al­ized that this was El­phias Doge, mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix and the writ­er of Dum­ble­dore’s obit­uary.

Har­ry ap­proached him.

“May I sit down?”

“Of course, of course,” said Doge; he had a rather high-​pitched, wheezy voice.

Har­ry leaned in.

“Mr. Doge, I’m Har­ry Pot­ter.”

Doge gasped.

“My dear boy! Arthur told me you were here, dis­guised…. I am so glad, so hon­ored!”

In a flut­ter of ner­vous plea­sure Doge poured Har­ry a gob­let of cham­pagne.

“I thought of writ­ing to you,” he whis­pered, “af­ter Dum­ble­dore… the shock… and for you, I am sure…”

Doge’s tiny eyes filled with sud­den tears.

“I saw the obit­uary you wrote for the Dai­ly Prophet,” said Har­ry. “I didn’t re­al­ize you knew Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore so well.”

“As well as any­one,” said Doge, dab­bing his eyes with a nap­kin. “Cer­tain­ly I knew him longest, if you don’t count Aber­forth – and some­how, peo­ple nev­er do seem to count Aber­forth.”

“Speak­ing of the Dai­ly Prophet… I don’t know whether you saw, Mr. Doge -?”

“Oh, please call me El­phias, dear boy.”

“El­phias, I don’t know whether you saw the in­ter­view Ri­ta Skeeter gave about Dum­ble­dore?”

Doge’s face flood­ed with an­gry col­or.

“Oh yes, Har­ry, I saw it. That wom­an, or vul­ture might be a more ac­cu­rate term, pos­itive­ly pestered me to talk to her, I am ashamed to say that I be­came rather rude, called her an in­ter­fer­ing trout, which re­sult­ed, as you my have seen, in as­per­sions cast up­on my san­ity.”

“Well, in that in­ter­view,” Har­ry went on, “Ri­ta Skeeter hint­ed that Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore was in­volved in the Dark Arts when he was young.”

“Don’t be­lieve a word of it!” said Doge at once. “Not a word, Har­ry! Let noth­ing tar­nish your mem­ories of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore!”

Har­ry looked in­to Doge’s earnest, pained face, and felt, not re­as­sured, but frus­trat­ed. Did Doge re­al­ly think it was that easy, that Har­ry could sim­ply choose not to be­lieve? Didn’t Doge un­der­stand Har­ry’s need to be sure, to know ev­ery­thing?”

Per­haps Doge sus­pect­ed Har­ry’s feel­ings, for he looked con­cerned and hur­ried on, “Har­ry, Ri­ta Skeeter is a dread­ful –“

But he was in­ter­rupt­ed by a shrill cack­le.

“Ri­ta Skeeter? Oh, I love her, al­ways read her!”

Har­ry and Doge looked up to see Aun­tie Muriel stand­ing there, the plumes danc­ing on her hair, a gob­let of cham­pagne in her hand. “She’s writ­ten a book about Dum­ble­dore, you know!”

“Hel­lo, Muriel,” said Doge, “Yes, we were just dis­cussing –“

“You there! Give me your chair, I’m a hun­dred and sev­en!”

An­oth­er red­head­ed Weasley cousin jumped off his seat, look­ing alarmed, and Aun­tie Muriel swung it around with sur­pris­ing strength and plopped her­self down up­on it be­tween Doge and Har­ry.

“Hel­lo again, Bar­ry or what­ev­er your name is,” she said to Har­ry, “Now what were you say­ing about Ri­ta Skeeter, El­phias? You know, she’s writ­ten a bi­og­ra­phy of Dum­ble­dore? I can’t wait to read it. I must re­mem­ber to place an or­der at Flour­ish and Blotts!”

Doge looked stiff and solemn at this but Aun­tie Muriel drained her gob­let and clicked her bony fin­gers at a pass­ing wait­er for a re­place­ment. She took an­oth­er large gulp of cham­pagne, belched and then said, “There’s no need to look like a pair of stuffed frogs! Be­fore he be­came so re­spect­ed and re­spectable and all that tosh, there were some mighty fun­ny ru­mors about Al­bus!”

“Ill-​in­formed snip­ing,” said Doge, turn­ing radish-​col­ored again.

“You would say that, El­phias,” cack­led Aun­tie Muriel. “I no­ticed how you skat­ed over the sticky patch­es in that obit­uary of yours!”

“I’m sor­ry you think so,” said Doge, more cold­ly still. “I as­sure you I was writ­ing from the heart.”

“Oh, we all know you wor­shipped Dum­ble­dore; I dare­say you’ll still think he was a saint even if it does turn out that he did away with his Squib sis­ter!”

“Muriel!” ex­claimed Doge.

A chill that had noth­ing to do with the iced cham­pagne was steal­ing through Har­ry’s chest.

“What do you mean?” he asked Muriel. “Who said his sis­ter was a Squib? I thought she was ill?”

“Thought wrong, then, didn’t you, Bar­ry!” said Aun­tie Muriel, look­ing de­light­ed at the ef­fect she had pro­duced. “Any­way, how could you ex­pect to know any­thing about it! IT all hap­pened years and years be­fore you were even thought of, my dear, and the truth is that those of us who were alive then nev­er knew what re­al­ly hap­pened. That’s why I can’t wait to find out what Skeeter’s un­earthed! Dum­ble­dore kept that sis­ter of his qui­et for a long time!”

“Un­true!” wheezed Doge, “Ab­so­lute­ly un­true!”

“He nev­er told me his sis­ter as a Squib,” said Har­ry, with­out think­ing, still cold in­side.

“And why on earth would he tell you?” screeched Muriel, sway­ing a lit­tle in her seat as she at­tempt­ed to fo­cus up­on Har­ry.

“The rea­son Al­bus nev­er spoke about Ar­iana,” be­gan El­phias in a voice stiff with emo­tion, “is, I should have thought, quite clear. He was so dev­as­tat­ed by her death –“

“Why did no­body ev­er see her, El­phias?” squawked Muriel, “Why did half of us nev­er even know she ex­ist­ed, un­til they car­ried the cof­fin out of the house and held a fu­ner­al for her? Where was saint­ly Al­bus while Ar­iana was locked in the cel­lar? Off be­ing bril­liant at Hog­warts, and nev­er mind what was go­ing on in his own house!”

“What d’you mean, locked in the cel­lar?” asked Har­ry. “What is this?”

Doge looked wretched. Aun­tie Muriel cack­led again and an­swered Har­ry.

“Dum­ble­dore’s moth­er was a ter­ri­fy­ing wom­an, sim­ply ter­ri­fy­ing. Mug­gle-​born, though I heard she pre­tend­ed oth­er­wise-“

“She nev­er pre­tend­ed any­thing of the sort! Kendra was a fine wom­an,” whis­pered Doge mis­er­ably, but Aun­tie Muriel ig­nored him.

“- proud and very dom­ineer­ing, the sort of witch who would have been mor­ti­fied to pro­duce a Squib-“

“Ar­iana was not a Squib!” wheezed Doge.

“So you say, El­phias, but ex­plain, then, why she nev­er at­tend­ed Hog­warts!” said Aun­tie Muriel. She turned back to Har­ry. “In our day, Squibs were of­ten hushed up, thought to take it to the ex­treme of ac­tu­al­ly im­pris­on­ing a lit­tle girl in the house and pre­tend­ing she didn’t ex­ist –“

“I tell you, that’s not what hap­pened!” said Doge, but Aun­tie Muriel steam­rollered on, still ad­dress­ing Har­ry.

Squibs were usu­al­ly shipped off to Mug­gle schools and en­cour­aged to in­te­grate in­to the Mug­gle com­mu­ni­ty… much kinder than try­ing to find them a place in the Wiz­ard­ing world, where they must al­ways be sec­ond class, but nat­ural­ly Kendra Dum­ble­dore wouldn’t have dreamed of let­ting her daugh­ter go to a Mug­gle school –“

“Ar­iana was del­icate!” said Doge des­per­ate­ly. “Her health was al­ways too poor to per­mit her –“

“- to per­mit her to leave the house?” cack­led Muriel. “And yet she was nev­er tak­en to St. Mun­go’s and no Heal­er was ev­er sum­moned to see her!”

“Re­al­ly, Muriel, how can you pos­si­bly know whether –“

“For your in­for­ma­tion, El­phias, my cousin Lancelot was a Heal­er at St. Mun­go’s at the time, and he told my fam­ily in strictest con­fi­dence that Ar­iana had nev­er been seen there. All most sus­pi­cious, Lancelot thought!”

Doge looked to be on the verge of tears. Aun­tie Muriel, who seemed to be en­joy­ing her­self huge­ly, snapped her fin­gers for more cham­pagne. Numbly Har­ry thought of how the Durs­leys had once shut him up, locked him away, kept him out of sight, all for the crime of be­ing a wiz­ard. Had Dum­ble­dore’s sis­ter suf­fered the same fate in re­verse: im­pris­oned for her lack of mag­ic? And had Dum­ble­dore tru­ly left her to her fate while he went off to Hog­warts to prove him­self bril­liant and tal­ent­ed?

“Now, if Kendra hadn’t died first,” Muriel re­sumed, “I’d have said that it was she who fin­ished off Ar­iana –“

“How can you, Muriel!” groaned Doge. “A moth­er kill her own daugh­ter? Think what you’re say­ing!”

“If the moth­er in ques­tion was ca­pa­ble of im­pris­on­ing her daugh­ter for years on end, why not?” shrugged Aun­tie Muriel. “But as I say, it doesn’t fit, be­cause Kendra died be­fore Ar­iana – of what, no­body ev­er seemed sure-“

“Yes, Ar­iana might have made a des­per­ate bid for free­dom and killed Kendra in the strug­gle,” said Aun­tie Muriel thought­ful­ly. “Shake your head all you like, El­phias. You were at Ar­iana’s fu­ner­al, were you not?”

“Yes I was,” said Doge, through trem­bling lips,” and a more des­per­ate­ly sad oc­ca­sion I can­not re­mem­ber. Al­bus was heart­bro­ken-“

“His heart wasn’t the on­ly thing. Didn’t Aber­forth break Al­bus’ nose halfway through the ser­vice?”

If Doge had looked hor­ri­fied be­fore this, it was noth­ing to how he looked now. Muriel might have stabbed him. She cack­led loud­ly and took an­oth­er swig of cham­pagne, which drib­bled down her chin.

“How do you -?” croaked Doge.

“My moth­er was friend­ly with old Bathil­da Bagshot,” said Aun­tie Muriel hap­pi­ly. “Bathil­da de­scribed the whole thing to moth­er while I was lis­ten­ing at the door. A cof­fin-​side brawl. The way Bathil­da told it, Aber­forth shout­ed that it was all Al­bus’ fault that Ar­iana was dead and then punched him in the face. Ac­cord­ing to Bathil­da, Al­bus did not even de­fend him­self, and that’s odd enough in it­self. Al­bus could have de­stroyed Aber­forth in a du­el with both hands tied be­hind his back.

Muriel swigged yet more cham­pagne. The recita­tion of those old scan­dals seemed to elate her as much as they hor­ri­fied Doge. Har­ry did not know what to think, what to be­lieve. He want­ed the truth and yet all Doge did was sit there and bleat fee­bly that Ar­iana had been ill. Har­ry could hard­ly be­lieve that Dum­ble­dore would not have in­ter­vened if such cru­el­ty was hap­pen­ing in­side his own house, and yet there was un­doubt­ed­ly some­thing odd about the sto­ry.

“And I’ll tell you some­thing else,” Muriel said, hic­cup­ping slight­ly as she low­ered her gob­let. “I think Bathil­da has spilled the beans to Ri­ta Skeeter. All those hints in Skeeter’s in­ter­view about an im­por­tant source close to the Dum­ble­dores – good­ness knows she was there all through the Ar­iana busi­ness, and it would fit!”

“Bathil­da, would nev­er talk to Ri­ta Skeeter!” whis­pered Doge.

“Bathil­da Bagshot?” Har­ry said. “The au­thor of A His­to­ry of Mag­ic?”

The name was print­ed on the front of one of Har­ry’s text­books, though ad­mit­ted­ly not one of the ones he had read more at­ten­tive­ly.

“Yes,” said Doge, clutch­ing at Har­ry’s ques­tion like a drown­ing man at a life heir. “A most gift­ed mag­ical his­to­ri­an and an old friend of Al­bus’s.”

“Quite gaga these days, I’ve heard,” said Aun­tie Muriel cheer­ful­ly.

“If that is so, it is even more dis­hon­or­able for Skeeter to have tak­en ad­van­tage of her,” said Doge, “and no re­liance can be placed on any­thing Bathil­da may have said!”

“Oh, there are ways of bring­ing back mem­ories, and I’m sure Ri­ta Skeeter knows them all,” said Aun­tie Muriel “But even if Bathil­da’s com­plete­ly cuck­oo, I’m sure she’d still have old pho­tographs, maybe even let­ters. She knew the Dum­ble­dores for years…. Well worth a trip to Go­dric’s Hol­low, I’d have thought.”

Har­ry, who had been tak­ing a sip of but­ter­beer, choked. Doge banged him on the back as Har­ry coughed, look­ing at Aun­tie Muriel through stream­ing eyes. Once he had con­trol of his voice again, he asked, “Bathil­da Bagshot lives in Go­dric’s Hol­low?”

“Oh yes, she’s been there for­ev­er! The Dum­ble­dores moved there af­ter Per­ci­val was im­pris­oned, and she was their neigh­bor.”

“The Dum­ble­dores lived in Go­dric’s Hol­lows?”

“Yes, Bar­ry, that’s what I just said,” said Aun­tie Muriel testi­ly.

Har­ry felt drained, emp­ty. Nev­er once, in six years, had Dum­ble­dore told Har­ry that they had both lived and lost loved ones in Go­dric’s Hol­low. Why? Were Lily and James buried close to Dum­ble­dore’s moth­er and sis­ter? Had Dum­ble­dore vis­it­ed their graves, per­haps walked past Lily’s and James’s to do so? And he had nev­er once told Har­ry … nev­er both­ered to say…

And why it was so im­por­tant, Har­ry could not ex­plain even to him­self, yet he felt it had been tan­ta­mount to a lie not to tell him that they had this place and these ex­pe­ri­ences in com­mon. He stared ahead of him, bare­ly notic­ing what was go­ing on around him, and did not re­al­ize that Hermione had ap­peared out of the crowd un­til she drew up a chair be­side him.

“I sim­ply can’t dance any­more,” she pant­ed, slip­ping of one of her shoes and rub­bing the sole of her foot. “Ron’s gone look­ing to find more but­ter­beers. It’s a bit odd. I’ve just seen Vik­tor storm­ing away from Lu­na’s fa­ther, it looked like they’d been ar­gu­ing –“ She dropped her voice, star­ing at him. “Har­ry, are you okay?”

Har­ry did not know where to be­gin, but it did not mat­ter, at that mo­ment, some­thing large and sil­ver came falling through the canopy over the dance floor. Grace­ful and gleam­ing, the lynx land­ed light­ly in the mid­dle of the as­ton­ished dancers. Heads turned, as those near­est it froze ab­surd­ly in mid-​dance. Then the Pa­tronus’s mouth opened wide and it spoke in the loud, deep, slow voice of Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt.

“The Min­istry has fall­en. Scrim­geour is dead. They are com­ing.”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER NINE


A PLACE TO HIDE



Ev­ery­thing seemed fuzzy, slow. Har­ry and Hermione jumped to their feet and drew their wands. Many peo­ple were on­ly just re­al­iz­ing that some­thing strange had hap­pened; heads were still turn­ing to­ward the sil­ver cat as it van­ished. Si­lence spread out­ward in cold rip­ples from the place where the Pa­tronus had land­ed. Then some­body screamed.

Har­ry and Hermione threw them­selves in­to the pan­ick­ing crowd. Guests were sprint­ing in all di­rec­tions; many were Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing; the pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments around the Bur­row had bro­ken.

“Ron!” Hermione cried. “Ron, where are you?”

As they pushed their way across the dance floor, Har­ry saw cloaked and masked fig­ures ap­pear­ing in the crowd; then he saw Lupin and Tonks, their wands raised, and heard both of them shout, “Pro­tego!”, a cry that was echoed on all sides –

“Ron! Ron!” Hermione called, half sob­bing as she and Har­ry were buffered by ter­ri­fied guests: Har­ry seized her hand to make sure they weren’t sep­arat­ed as a streak of light whizzed over their heads, whether a pro­tec­tive charm or some­thing more sin­is­ter he did not know –

And then Ron was there. He caught hold of Hermione’s free arm, and Har­ry felt her turn on the spot; sight and sound were ex­tin­guished as dark­ness pressed in up­on him; all he could feel was Hermione’s hand as he was squeezed through space and time, away from the Bur­row, away from the de­scend­ing Death Eaters, away, per­haps, from Volde­mort him­self. . . .

“Where are we?” said Ron’s voice.

Har­ry opened his eyes. For a mo­ment he thought they had not left the wed­ding af­ter all; They still seemed to be sur­round­ed by peo­ple.

“Tot­ten­ham Court Road,” pant­ed Hermione. “Walk, just walk, we need to find some­where for you to change.”

Har­ry did as she asked. They half walked, half ran up the wide dark street thronged with late-​night rev­el­ers and lined with closed shops, stars twin­kling above them. A dou­ble-​deck­er bus rum­bled by and a group of mer­ry pub-​go­ers ogled them as they passed; Har­ry and Ron were still wear­ing dress robes.

“Hermione, we haven’t got any­thing to change in­to,” Ron told her, as a young wom­an burst in­to rau­cous gig­gles at the sight of him.

“Why didn’t I make sure I had the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak with me?” said Har­ry, in­ward­ly curs­ing his own stu­pid­ity. “All last year I kept it on me and –“

“It’s okay, I’ve got the Cloak, I’ve got clothes for both of you,” said Hermione, “Just try and act nat­ural­ly un­til – this will do.”

She led them down a side street, then in­to the shel­ter of a shad­owy al­ley­way.

“When you say you’ve got the Cloak, and clothes . . .” said Har­ry, frown­ing at Hermione, who was car­ry­ing noth­ing ex­cept her small bead­ed hand­bag, in which she was now rum­mag­ing.

“Yes, they’re here,” said Hermione, and to Har­ry and Ron’s ut­ter as­ton­ish­ment, she pulled out a pair of jeans, a sweat­shirt, some ma­roon socks, and fi­nal­ly the sil­very In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“How the rud­dy hell – ?”

“Un­de­tectable Ex­ten­sion Charm,” said Hermione. “Tricky, but I think I’ve done it okay; any­way, I man­aged to fit ev­ery­thing we need in here.” She gave the frag­ile-​look­ing bag a lit­tle shake and it echoed like a car­go hold as a num­ber of heavy ob­jects rolled around in­side it. “Oh, damn, that’ll be the books,” she said, peer­ing in­to it, “and I had them all stacked by sub­ject. . . . Oh well. . . . Har­ry, you’d bet­ter take the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Ron, hur­ry up and change. . . .”

“When did you do all this?” Har­ry asked as Ron stripped off his robes.

“I told you at the Bur­row, I’ve had the es­sen­tials packed for days, you know, in case we need­ed to make a quick get­away. I packed your ruck­sack this morn­ing, Har­ry, af­ter you changed, and put it in here. . . . I just had a feel­ing. . . .”

“You’re amaz­ing, you are,” said Ron, hand­ing her his bun­dled-​up robes.

“Thank you,” said Hermione, man­ag­ing a small smile as she pushed the robes in­to the bag. “Please, Har­ry, get that Cloak on!”

Har­ry threw his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak around his shoul­ders and pulled it up over his head, van­ish­ing from sight. He was on­ly just be­gin­ning to ap­pre­ci­ate what had hap­pened.

“The oth­ers – ev­ery­body at the wed­ding –“

“We can’t wor­ry about that now,” whis­pered Hermione. “It’s you they’re af­ter, Har­ry, and we’ll just put ev­ery­one in even more dan­ger by go­ing back.”

“She’s right,” said Ron, who seemed to know that Har­ry was about to ar­gue, even if he could not see his face. “Most of the Or­der was there, they’ll look af­ter ev­ery­one.”

Har­ry nod­ded, then re­mem­bered that they could not see him, and said, “Yeah.” But he thought of Gin­ny, and fear bub­bled like acid in his stom­ach.

“Come on, I think we ought to keep mov­ing,” said Hermione.

They moved back up the side street and on­to the main road again, where a group of men on the op­po­site side was singing and weav­ing across the pave­ment.

“Just as a mat­ter of in­ter­est, why Tot­ten­ham Court Road?” Ron asked Hermione.

“I’ve no idea, it just popped in­to my head, but I’m sure we’re safer out in the Mug­gle world, it’s not where they’ll ex­pect us to be.”

“True,” said Ron, look­ing around, “but don’t you feel a bit – ex­posed?”

“Where else is there?” asked Hermione, cring­ing as the men on the oth­er side of the road start­ed wolf-​whistling at her. “We can hard­ly book rooms at the Leaky Caul­dron, can we? And Grim­mauld Place is out if Snape can get in there. . . . I sup­pose we could try my par­ents’ home, though I think there’s a chance they might check there. . . . Oh, I wish they’d shut up!”

“All right, dar­ling?” the drunk­est of the men on the oth­er pave­ment was yelling. “Fan­cy a drink? Ditch gin­ger and come and have a pint!”

“Let’s sit down some­where,” Hermione said hasti­ly as Ron opened his mouth to shout back across the road. “Look, this will do, in here!”

It was a small and shab­by all-​night café. A light lay­er of grease lay on all the Formi­ca-​topped ta­bles, but it was at least emp­ty. Har­ry slipped in­to a booth first and Ron sat next to him op­po­site Hermione, who had her back to the en­trance and did not like it: She glanced over her shoul­der so fre­quent­ly she ap­peared to have a twitch. Har­ry did not like be­ing sta­tion­ary; walk­ing had giv­en the il­lu­sion that they had a goal. Be­neath the Cloak he could feel the last ves­tiges of Polyjuice leav­ing him, his hands re­turn­ing to their usu­al length and shape. He pulled his glass­es out of his pock­et and put them on again.

Af­ter a minute or two, Ron said, “You know, we’re not far from the Leaky Caul­dron here, it’s on­ly in Char­ing Cross –“

“Ron, we can’t!” said Hermione at once.

“Not to stay there, but to find out what’s go­ing on!”

“We know what’s go­ing on! Volde­mort’s tak­en over the Min­istry, what else do we need to know?”

“Okay, okay, it was just an idea!” They re­lapsed in­to a prick­ly si­lence. The gum-​chew­ing wait­ress shuf­fled over and Hermione or­dered two cap­puc­ci­nos: As Har­ry was in­vis­ible, it would have looked odd to or­der him one. A pair of burly work­men en­tered the café and squeezed in­to the next booth. Hermione dropped her voice to a whis­per.

“I say we find a qui­et place to Dis­ap­pa­rate and head for the coun­try­side. Once we’re there, we could send a mes­sage to the Or­der.”

“Can you do that talk­ing Pa­tronus thing, then?” asked Ron.

“I’ve been prac­tic­ing and I think so,” said Hermione.

“Well, as long as it doesn’t get them in­to trou­ble, though they might’ve been ar­rest­ed al­ready. God, that’s re­volt­ing,” Ron added af­ter one sip of the foamy, gray­ish cof­fee. The wait­ress had heard; she shot Ron a nasty look as she shuf­fled off to take the new cus­tomers’ or­ders. The larg­er of the two work­men, who was blond and quite huge, now that Har­ry came to look at him, waved her away. She stared, af­front­ed.

“Let’s get go­ing, then, I don’t want to drink this muck,” said Ron. “Hermione, have you got Mug­gle mon­ey to pay for this?”

“Yes, I took out all my Build­ing So­ci­ety sav­ings be­fore I came to the Bur­row. I’ll bet all the change is at the bot­tom,” sighed Hermione, reach­ing for her bead­ed bag.

The two work­men made iden­ti­cal move­ments, and Har­ry mir­rored them with­out con­scious thought: All three of them drew their wands. Ron, a few sec­onds late in re­al­iz­ing what was go­ing on, lunged across the ta­ble, push­ing Hermione side­ways on­to her bench. The force of the Death Eaters’ spells shat­tered the tiled wall where Ron’s head had just been, as Har­ry, still in­vis­ible, yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!”

The great blond Death Eater was hit in the face by a jet of red light: He slumped side­ways, un­con­scious. His com­pan­ion, un­able to see who had cast the spell, fired an­oth­er at Ron: Shin­ing black ropes flew from his wand-​tip and bound Ron head to foot – the wait­ress screamed and ran for the door – Har­ry sent an­oth­er Stun­ning Spell at the Death Eater with the twist­ed face who had tied up Ron, but the spell missed, re­bound­ed on the win­dow, and hit the wait­ress, who col­lapsed in front of the door.

“Ex­pul­so!” bel­lowed the Death Eater, and the ta­ble be­hind which Har­ry was stand­ing blew up: The force of the ex­plo­sion slammed him in­to the wall and he felt his wand leave his hand as the Cloak slipped off him.

“Pet­ri­fi­cus To­talus!” screamed Hermione from out of sight, and the Death Eater fell for­ward like a stat­ue to land with a crunch­ing thud on the mess of bro­ken chi­na, ta­ble, and cof­fee. Hermione crawled out from un­der­neath the bench, shak­ing bits of glass ash­tray out of her hair and trem­bling all over.

“D-​diffin­do,” she said, point­ing her wand at Ron, who roared in pain as she slashed open the knee of his jeans, leav­ing a deep cut. “Oh, I’m so sor­ry, Ron, my hand’s shak­ing! Diffin­do!”

The sev­ered ropes fell away. Ron got to his feet, shak­ing his arms to re­gain feel­ing in them. Har­ry picked up his wand and climbed over all the de­bris to where the large blond Death Eater was sprawled across the bench.

“I should’ve rec­og­nized him, he was there the night Dum­ble­dore died,” he said. He turned over the dark­er Death Eater with his foot; the man’s eyes moved rapid­ly be­tween Har­ry, Ron and Hermione.

“That’s Dolo­hov,” said Ron. “I rec­og­nize him from the old want­ed posters. I think the big one’s Thorfinn Rowle.”

“Nev­er mind what they’re called!” said Hermione a lit­tle hys­ter­ical­ly. “How did they find us? What are we go­ing to do?”

Some­how her pan­ic seemed to clear Har­ry’s head.

“Lock the door,” he told her, “and Ron, turn out the lights.”

He looked down at the par­alyzed Dolo­hov, think­ing fast as the lock clicked and Ron used the De­lu­mi­na­tor to plunge the café in­to dark­ness. Har­ry could hear the men who had jeered at Hermione ear­li­er, yelling at an­oth­er girl in the dis­tance.

“What are we go­ing to do with them?” Ron whis­pered to Har­ry through the dark; then, even more qui­et­ly, “Kill them? They’d kill us. They had a good go just now.”

Hermione shud­dered and took a step back­ward. Har­ry shook his head.

“We just need to wipe their mem­ories,” said Har­ry. “It’s bet­ter like that, it’ll throw them off the scent. If we killed them it’d be ob­vi­ous we were here.”

“You’re the boss,” said Ron, sound­ing pro­found­ly re­lieved. “But I’ve nev­er down a Mem­ory Charm.”

“Nor have I,” said Hermione, “but I know the the­ory.”

She took a deep, calm­ing breath, then point­ed her wand at Dolo­hov’s fore­head and said, “Oblivi­ate.”

At once, Dolo­hov’s eyes be­came un­fo­cused and dreamy.

“Bril­liant!” said Har­ry, clap­ping her on the back. “Take care of the oth­er one and the wait­ress while Ron and I clear up.” “Clear up?” said Ron, look­ing around at the part­ly de­stroyed café. “Why?”

“Don’t you think they might won­der what’s hap­pened if they wake up and find them­selves in a place that looks like it’s just been bombed?”

“Oh right, yeah . . .”

Ron strug­gled for a mo­ment be­fore man­ag­ing to ex­tract his wand from his pock­et.

“It’s no won­der I can’t get it out, Hermione, you packed my old jeans, they’re tight.”

“Oh, I’m so sor­ry,” hissed Hermione, and as she dragged the wait­ress out of sight of the win­dows, Har­ry heard her mut­ter a sug­ges­tion as to where Ron could stick his wand in­stead.

Once the café was re­stored to its pre­vi­ous con­di­tion, they heaved the Death Eaters back in­to their booth and propped them up fac­ing each oth­er. “But how did they find us?” Hermione asked, look­ing from one in­ert man to the oth­er. “How did they know where we were?”

She turned to Har­ry.

“You – you don’t think you’ve still got your Trace on you, do you, Har­ry?”

“He can’t have,” said Ron. “The Trace breaks at sev­en­teen, that’s Wiz­ard­ing law, you can’t put it on an adult.”

“As far as you know,” said Hermione. “What if the Death Eaters have found a way to put it on a sev­en­teen-​year-​old?”

“But Har­ry hasn’t been near a Death Eater in the last twen­ty-​four hours. Who’s sup­posed to have put a Trace back on him?”

Hermione did not re­ply. Har­ry felt con­tam­inat­ed, taint­ed: Was that re­al­ly how the Death Eaters had found them?

“If I can’t use mag­ic, and you can’t use mag­ic near me, with­out us giv­ing away our po­si­tion – “ he be­gan.

“We’re not split­ting up!” said Hermione firm­ly.

“We need a safe place to hide,” said Ron. “Give us time to think things through.”

“Grim­mauld Place ,” said Har­ry.

The oth­er two gaped.

“Don’t be sil­ly, Har­ry, Snape can get in there!”

“Ron’s dad said they’ve put up jinx­es against him – and even if they haven’t worked,” he pressed on as Hermione be­gan to ar­gue “so what? I swear, I’d like noth­ing bet­ter than to meet Snape!”

“But –“

“Hermione, where else is there? It’s the best chance we’ve got. Snape’s on­ly one Death Eater. If I’ve still got the Trace on me, we’ll have whole crowds of them on us wher­ev­er else we go.”

She could not ar­gue, though she looked as if she would have liked to. While she un­locked the café door, Ron clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor to re­lease the café’s light. Then, on Har­ry’s count of three, they re­versed the spells up­on their three vic­tims, and be­fore the wait­ress or ei­ther of the Death Eaters could do more than stir sleep­ily, Har­ry, Ron and Hermione had turned on the spot and van­ished in­to the com­press­ing dark­ness once more.

Sec­onds lat­er Har­ry’s lungs ex­pand­ed grate­ful­ly and he opened his eyes: They were now stand­ing in the mid­dle of a fa­mil­iar small and shab­by square. Tall, di­lap­idat­ed hous­es looked down on them from ev­ery side. Num­ber twelve was vis­ible to them, for they had been told of its ex­is­tence by Dum­ble­dore, its Se­cret-​Keep­er, and they rushed to­ward it, check­ing ev­ery few yards that they were not be­ing fol­lowed or ob­served. They raced up the stone steps, and Har­ry tapped the front door once with his wand. They heard a se­ries of metal­lic clicks and the clat­ter of a chain, then the door swung open with a creak and they hur­ried over the thresh­old.

As Har­ry closed the door be­hind them, the old-​fash­ioned gas lamps sprang in­to life, cast­ing flick­er­ing light along the length of the hall­way. It looked just as Har­ry re­mem­bered it: eerie, cob­webbed, the out­lines of the house-​elf heads on the wall throw­ing odd shad­ows up the stair­case. Long dark cur­tains con­cealed the por­trait of Sir­ius’s moth­er. The on­ly thing that was out of place was the troll’s leg um­brel­la stand, which was ly­ing on its side as if Tonks had just knocked it over again.

“I think some­body’s been in here,” Hermione whis­pered, point­ing to­ward it.

“That could’ve hap­pened as the Or­der left,” Ron mur­mured back.

“So where are these jinx­es they put up against Snape?” Har­ry asked.

“Maybe they’re on­ly ac­ti­vat­ed if he shows up?” sug­gest­ed Ron.

Yet they re­mained close to­geth­er on the door­mat, backs against the door, scared to move far­ther in­to the house.

“Well, we can’t stay here for­ev­er,” said Har­ry, and he took a step for­ward.

“Severus Snape?”

Mad-​Eye Moody’s voice whis­pered out of the dark­ness, mak­ing all three of them jump back in fright. “We’re not Snape!” croaked Har­ry, be­fore some­thing whooshed over him like cold air and his tongue curled back­ward on it­self, mak­ing it im­pos­si­ble to speak. Be­fore he had time to feel in­side his mouth, how­ev­er, his tongue had un­rav­eled again.

The oth­er two seemed to have ex­pe­ri­enced the same un­pleas­ant sen­sa­tion. Ron was mak­ing retch­ing nois­es; Hermione stam­mered, “That m-​must have b-​been the T-​Tongue-​Ty­ing Curse Mad-​Eye set up for Snape!”

Gin­ger­ly Har­ry took an­oth­er step for­ward. Some­thing shift­ed in the shad­ows at the end of the hall, and be­fore any of them could say an­oth­er word, a fig­ure had risen up out of the car­pet, tall, dust-​col­ored, and ter­ri­ble; Hermione screamed and so did Mrs. Black, her cur­tains fly­ing open; the gray fig­ure was glid­ing to­ward them, faster and faster, its waist-​length hair and beard stream­ing be­hind it, its face sunken, flesh­less, with emp­ty eye sock­ets: Hor­ri­bly fa­mil­iar, dread­ful­ly al­tered, it raised a wast­ed arm, point­ing at Har­ry.

“No!” Har­ry shout­ed, and though he had raised his wand no spell oc­curred to him. “No! It wasn’t us! We didn’t kill you –“

On the word kill, the fig­ure ex­plod­ed in a great cloud of dust: Cough­ing, his eyes wa­ter­ing, Har­ry looked around to see Hermione crouched on the floor by the door with her arms over her head, and Ron, who was shak­ing from head to foot, pat­ting her clum­si­ly on the shoul­der and say­ing, “It’s all r-​right. . . . It’s g-​gone. . . .”

Dust swirled around Har­ry like mist, catch­ing the blue gaslight, as Mrs. Black con­tin­ued to scream.

“Mud­bloods, filth, stains of dis­hon­or, taint of shame on the house of my fa­thers –“

“SHUT UP!” Har­ry bel­lowed, di­rect­ing his wand at her, and with a bang and a burst of red sparks, the cur­tains swung shut again, si­lenc­ing her.

“That . . . that was . . . “ Hermione whim­pered, as Ron helped her to her feet.

“Yeah,” said Har­ry, “but it wasn’t re­al­ly him, was it? Just some­thing to scare Snape.” Had it worked, Har­ry won­dered, or had Snape al­ready blast­ed the hor­ror-​fig­ure aside as ca­su­al­ly as he had killed the re­al Dum­ble­dore? Nerves still tin­gling, he led the oth­er two up the hall, half-​ex­pect­ing some new ter­ror to re­veal it­self, but noth­ing moved ex­cept for a mouse skit­ter­ing along the skirt­ing board.

“Be­fore we go any far­ther, I think we’d bet­ter check,” whis­pered Hermione, and she raised her wand and said, “Home­num rev­elio.”

Noth­ing hap­pened.

“Well, you’ve just had a big shock,” said Ron kind­ly. “What was that sup­posed to do?”

“It did what I meant it to do!” said Hermione rather cross­ly. “That was a spell to re­veal hu­man pres­ence, and there’s no­body here ex­cept us!” “And old Dusty,” said Ron, glanc­ing at the patch of car­pet from which the corpse-​fig­ure had risen.

“Let’s go up,” said Hermione with a fright­ened look at the same spot, and she led the way up the creak­ing stairs to the draw­ing room on the first floor.

Hermione waved her wand to ig­nite the old gas lamps, then, shiv­er­ing slight­ly in the drafty room, she perched on the so­fa, her arms wrapped tight­ly around her. Ron crossed to the win­dow and moved the heavy vel­vet cur­tains aside an inch.

“Can’t see any­one out there,” he re­port­ed. “And you’d think, if Har­ry still had a Trace on him, they’d have fol­lowed us here. I know they can’t get in the house, but – what’s up, Har­ry?”

Har­ry had giv­en a cry of pain: His scar had burned against as some­thing flashed across his mind like a bright light on wa­ter. He saw a large shad­ow and felt a fury that was not his own pound through his body, vi­olent and brief as an elec­tric shock.

“What did you see?” Ron asked, ad­vanc­ing on Har­ry. “Did you see him at my place?”

“No, I just felt anger – he’s re­al­ly an­gry –“

“But that could be at the Bur­row,” said Ron loud­ly. “What else? Didn’t you see any­thing? Was he curs­ing some­one?”

“No, I just felt anger – I couldn’t tell –“

Har­ry felt bad­gered, con­fused, and Hermione did not help as she said in a fright­ened voice, “Your scar, again? But what’s go­ing on? I thought that con­nec­tion had closed!”

“It did, for a while,” mut­tered Har­ry; his scar was still painful, which made it hard to con­cen­trate. “I – I think it’s start­ed open­ing again when­ev­er he los­es con­trol, that’s how it used to –“

“But then you’ve got to close your mind!” said Hermione shril­ly. “Har­ry, Dum­ble­dore didn’t want you to use that con­nec­tion, he want­ed you to shut it down, that’s why you were sup­posed to use Oc­clu­men­cy! Oth­er­wise Volde­mort can plant false im­ages in your mind, re­mem­ber –“

“Yeah, I do re­mem­ber, thanks,” said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth; he did not need Hermione to tell him that Volde­mort had once used this self­same con­nec­tion be­tween them to lead him in­to a trap, nor that it had re­sult­ed in Sir­ius’s death. He wished that he had not told them what he had seen and felt; it made Volde­mort more threat­en­ing, as though he were press­ing against the win­dow of the room, and still the pain in his scar was build­ing and he fought it: It was like re­sist­ing the urge to be sick.

He turned his back on Ron and Hermione, pre­tend­ing to ex­am­ine the old tapestry of the Black fam­ily tree on the wall. Then Hermione shrieked: Har­ry drew his wand again and spun around to see a sil­ver Pa­tronus soar through the draw­ing room win­dow and land up­on the floor in front of them, where it so­lid­ified in­to the weasel that spoke with the voice of Ron’s fa­ther.

“Fam­ily safe, do not re­ply, we are be­ing watched.”

The Pa­tronus dis­solved in­to noth­ing­ness. Ron let out a noise be­tween a whim­per and a groan and dropped on­to the so­fa: Hermione joined him, grip­ping his arm.

“They’re all right, they’re all right!” she whis­pered, and Ron half laughed and hugged her.

“Har­ry,” he said over Hermione’s shoul­der, “I –“

“It’s not a prob­lem,” said Har­ry, sick­ened by the pain in his head. “It’s your fam­ily, ‘course you were wor­ried. I’d feel the same way.” He thought of Gin­ny. “I do feel the same way.”

The pain in his scar was reach­ing a peak, burn­ing as it had back in the gar­den of the Bur­row. Faint­ly he heard Hermione say “I don’t want to be on my own. Could we use the sleep­ing bags I’ve brought and camp in here tonight?”

He heard Ron agree. He could not fight the pain much longer. He had to suc­cumb.

“Bath­room,” he mut­tered, and he left the room as fast as he could with­out run­ning.

He bare­ly made it: Bolt­ing the door be­hind him with trem­bling hands, he grasped his pound­ing head and fell to the floor, then in an ex­plo­sion of agony, he felt the rage that did not be­long to him pos­sess his soul, saw a long room lit on­ly by fire­light, and the gi­ant blond Death Eater on the floor, scream­ing and writhing, and a slighter fig­ure stand­ing over him, wand out­stretched, while Har­ry spoke in a high, cold, mer­ci­less voice.

“More, Rowle, or shall we end it and feed you to Nagi­ni? Lord Volde­mort is not sure that he will for­give this time. . . . You called me back for this, to tell me that Har­ry Pot­ter has es­caped again? Dra­co, give Rowle an­oth­er taste of our dis­plea­sure. . . . Do it, or feel my wrath your­self!”

A log fell in the fire: Flames reared, their light dart­ing across a ter­ri­fied, point­ed white face – with a sense of emerg­ing from deep wa­ter, Har­ry drew heav­ing breaths and opened his eyes.

He was spread-​ea­gled on the cold black mar­ble floor, his nose inch­es from one of the sil­ver ser­pent tails that sup­port­ed the large bath­tub. He sat up. Mal­foy’s gaunt, pet­ri­fied face seemed burned on the in­side of his eyes. Har­ry felt sick­ened by what he had seen, by the use to which Dra­co was now be­ing put by Volde­mort.

There was a sharp rap on the door, and Har­ry jumped as Hermione’s voice rang out.

“Har­ry, do you want your tooth­brush? I’ve got it here.”

“Yeah, great, thanks,” he said, fight­ing to keep his voice ca­su­al as he stood up to let her in.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TEN


KREACH­ER’S TALE



Har­ry woke ear­ly next morn­ing, wrapped in a sleep­ing bag on the draw­ing room floor. A chink of sky was vis­ible be­tween the heavy cur­tains. It was the cool, clear blue of wa­tered ink, some­where be­tween night and dawn, and ev­ery­thing was qui­et ex­cept for Ron and Hermione’s slow, deep breath­ing. Har­ry glanced over at the dark shapes they made on the floor be­side him. Ron had had a fit of gal­lantry and in­sist­ed that Hermione sleep on the cush­ions from the so­fa, so that her sil­hou­ette was raised above his. Her arm curved to the floor, her fin­gers inch­es from Ron’s. Har­ry won­dered whether they had fall­en asleep hold­ing hands. The idea made him feel strange­ly lone­ly.

He looked up at the shad­owy ceil­ing, the cob­webbed chan­de­lier. Less than twen­ty-​four house ago, he had been stand­ing in the sun­light at the en­trance to the mar­quee, wait­ing to show in wed­ding guests. It seemed a life­time away. What was go­ing to hap­pen now? He lay on the floor and he thought of the Hor­crux­es, of the daunt­ing com­plex mis­sion Dum­ble­dore had left him… Dum­ble­dore…

The grief that had pos­sessed him since Dum­ble­dore’s death felt dif­fer­ent now. The ac­cu­sa­tions he had heard from Muriel at the wed­ding seemed to have nest­ed in his brain like dis­eased things, in­fect­ing his mem­ories of the wiz­ard he had idol­ized. Could Dum­ble­dore have let such things hap­pen? Had he been like Dud­ley, con­tent to watch ne­glect and abuse as long as it did not af­fect him? Could he have turned his back on a sis­ter who was be­ing im­pris­oned and hid­den?

Har­ry thought of Go­dric’s Hol­low, of graves Dum­ble­dore had nev­er men­tioned there; he thought of mys­te­ri­ous ob­jects left with­out ex­pla­na­tion in Dum­ble­dore’s will, and re­sent­ment swelled in the dark­ness. Why hadn’t Dum­ble­dore told him? Why hadn’t he ex­plained? Had Dum­ble­dore ac­tu­al­ly cared about Har­ry at all? Or had Har­ry been noth­ing more than a tool to be pol­ished and honed, but not trust­ed, nev­er con­fid­ed in?

Har­ry could not stand ly­ing there with noth­ing but bit­ter thoughts for com­pa­ny. Des­per­ate for some­thing to do, for dis­trac­tion, he slipped out of his sleep­ing bad, picked up his wand, and crept out of the room. On the land­ing he whis­pered, “Lu­mos,” and start­ed to climb the stairs by wan­dlight.

On the sec­ond land­ing was the bed­room in which he and Ron had slept last time they had been here; he glanced in­to it. The wardrobe doors stood open and the bed­clothes had been ripped back. Har­ry re­mem­bered the over­turned troll leg down­stairs. Some­body had searched the house since the Or­der had left. Snape? Or per­haps Mundun­gus, who had pil­fered plen­ty from this house both be­fore and af­ter Sir­ius died? Har­ry’s gaze wan­dered to the por­trait that some­times con­tained Phineas Nigel­lus Black, Sir­ius’s great-​great grand­fa­ther, but it was emp­ty, show­ing noth­ing but a stretch of mud­dy back­drop. Phineas Nigel­lus was ev­ident­ly spend­ing the night in the head­mas­ter’s study at Hog­warts.

Har­ry con­tin­ued up the stairs un­til he reached the top­most land­ing where there were on­ly two doors. The one fac­ing him bore a name­plate read­ing Sir­ius. Har­ry had nev­er en­tered his god­fa­ther’s bed­room be­fore. He pushed open the door, hold­ing his wand high to cast light as wide­ly as pos­si­ble. The room was spa­cious and must once have been hand­some. There was a large bed with a carved wood­en head­board, a tall win­dow ob­scured by long vel­vet cur­tains and a chan­de­lier thick­ly coat­ed in dust with can­dle scrubs still rest­ing in its sock­ets, sol­id wax bang­ing in frost­like drips. A fine film of dust cov­ered the pic­tures on the walls and the bed’s head­board; a spi­ders web stretched be­tween the chan­de­lier and the top of the large wood­en wardrobe, and as Har­ry moved deep­er in­to the room, he head a scur­ry­ing of dis­turbed mice.

The teenage Sir­ius had plas­tered the walls with so many posters and pic­tures that lit­tle of the wall’s sil­very-​gray silk was vis­ible. Har­ry could on­ly as­sume that Sir­ius’s par­ents had been un­able to re­move the Per­ma­nent Stick­ing Charm that kept them on the wall be­cause he was sure they would not have ap­pre­ci­at­ed their el­dest son’s taste in dec­ora­tion. Sir­ius seemed to have long gone out of his way to an­noy his par­ents. There were sev­er­al large Gryffind­or ban­ners, fad­ed scar­let and gold just to un­der­line his dif­fer­ence from all the rest of the Slytherin fam­ily. There were many pic­tures of Mug­gle mo­tor­cy­cles, and al­so (Har­ry had to ad­mire Sir­ius’s nerve) sev­er­al posters of biki­ni-​clad Mug­gle girls. Har­ry could tell that they were Mug­gles be­cause they re­mained quite sta­tion­ary with­in their pic­tures, fad­ed smiles and glazed eyes frozen on the pa­per. This was in con­trast the on­ly Wiz­ard­ing pho­to­graph on the walls which was a pic­ture of four Hog­warts stu­dents stand­ing arm in arm, laugh­ing at the cam­era.

With a leap of plea­sure, Har­ry rec­og­nized his fa­ther, his un­tidy black hair stuck up at the back like Har­ry’s, and he too wore glass­es. Be­side him was Sir­ius, care­less­ly hand­some, his slight­ly ar­ro­gant face so much younger and hap­pi­er than Har­ry had ev­er seen it alive. To Sir­ius’s right stood Pet­ti­grew, more than a head short­er, plump and wa­tery-​eyed, flushed with plea­sure at his in­clu­sion in this coolest of gangs, with the much-​ad­mired rebels that James and Sir­ius had been. On James’s left was Lupin, even then a lit­tle shab­by-​look­ing, but he had the same air of de­light­ed sur­prise at find­ing him­self liked and in­clud­ed or was it sim­ply be­cause Har­ry knew how it had been, that he saw these things in the pic­ture? He tried to take it from the wall; it was his now, af­ter all, Sir­ius had left him ev­ery­thing, but it would not budge. Sir­ius had tak­en no chances in pre­vent­ing his par­ents from re­dec­orat­ing his room.

Har­ry looked around at the floor. The sky out­side was grow­ing bright­est. A shaft of light re­vealed bits of pa­per, books, and small ob­jects scat­tered over the car­pet. Ev­ident­ly Sir­ius’s bed­room had been reached too, al­though its con­tents seemed to have been judged most­ly, if not en­tire­ly, worth­less. A few of the books had been shak­en rough­ly enough to part com­pa­ny with the cov­ers and sundry pages lit­tered the floor.

Har­ry bent down, picked up a few of the pieces of pa­per, and ex­am­ined them. He rec­og­nized one as a part of an old edi­tion of A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, by Bathil­da Bagshot, and an­oth­er as be­long­ing to a mo­tor­cy­cle main­te­nance man­ual. The third was hand­writ­ten and crum­pled. He smoothed it out.



Dear Pad­foot,

Thank you, thank you, for Har­ry’s birth­day present! It was his fa­vorite by far. One year old and al­ready zoom­ing along on a toy broom­stick, he looked so pleased with him­self. I’m en­clos­ing a pic­ture so you can see. You know it on­ly ris­es about two feet off the ground but he near­ly killed the cat and he smashed a hor­ri­ble vase Petu­nia sent me for Christ­mas (no com­plaints there). Of course James thought it was so fun­ny, says he’s go­ing to be a great Quid­ditch play­er but we’ve had to pack away all the or­na­ments and make sure we don’t take our eyes off him when he gets go­ing.

We had a very qui­et birth­day tea, just us and old Bathil­da who has al­ways been sweet to us and who dotes on Gar­ry. We were so sor­ry you couldn’t come, but the Or­der’s got to come first, and Har­ry’s not old enough to know it’s his birth­day any­way! James is get­ting a bit frus­trat­ed shut up here, he tries not to show it but I can tell – al­so Dum­ble­dore’s still got his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, so no chance of lit­tle ex­cur­sions. If you could vis­it, it would cheer him up so much. Wormy was here last week­end. I thought he seemed down, but that was prob­ably the next about the McK­in­nons; I cried all evening when I heard.

Bathil­da drops in most days, she’s a fas­ci­nat­ing old thing with the most amaz­ing sto­ries about Dum­ble­dore. I’m not sure he’d be pleased if he knew! I don’t know how much to be­lieve, ac­tu­al­ly be­cause it seems in­cred­ible that Dum­ble­dore



Har­ry’s ex­trem­ities seemed to have gone numb. He stood quite still, hold­ing the mirac­ulous pa­per in his nerve­less fin­gers while in­side him a kind of qui­et erup­tions sent joy and grief thun­der­ing its equal mea­sure through his veins. Lurch­ing to the bed, he sat down.

He read the let­ter again, but could not take in any more mean­ing than he had done the first time, and was re­duced to star­ing at the hand­writ­ing it­self. She had made her “g”s the same way he did. He searched through the let­ter for ev­ery one of them, and each felt like a friend­ly lit­tle wave glimpsed from be­hind a veil. The let­ter was an in­cred­ible trea­sure, proof that Lily Pot­ter had lived, re­al­ly lived, that her warm hand had once moved across this parch­ment, trac­ing ink in­to these let­ters, these words, words about him, Har­ry, her son.

Im­pa­tient­ly brush­ing away the wet­ness in his eyes, he reread the let­ter, this time con­cen­trat­ing on the mean­ing. It was like lis­ten­ing to a half-​re­mem­bered voice.

They had a cat… per­haps it had per­ished, like his par­ents at Go­dric’s Hol­low… or else fled when there was no­body left to feed it… Sir­ius had bought him his first broom­stick… His par­ents had known Bathil­da Bagshot; had Dum­ble­dore in­tro­duced them? Dum­ble­dore’s still got his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak… there was some­thing fun­ny there…

Har­ry paused, pon­der­ing his moth­er’s words. Why had Dum­ble­dore tak­en James’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak? Har­ry dis­tinct­ly re­mem­bered his head­mas­ter telling him years be­fore, “I don’t need a cloak to be­come in­vis­ible” Per­haps some less gift­ed Or­der mem­ber had need­ed its as­sis­tance, and Dum­ble­dore had act­ed as a car­ri­er? Har­ry passed on…

Wormy was here… Pet­ti­grew, the traitor, had seemed “down” had he? Was he aware that he was see­ing James and Lily alive for the last time?

And fi­nal­ly Bathil­da again, who told in­cred­ible sto­ries about Dum­ble­dore. It seems in­cred­ible that Dum­ble­dore ---

That Dum­ble­dore what? But there were any num­ber of things that would seem in­cred­ible about Dum­ble­dore; that he had once re­ceived bot­tom marks in a Trans­fig­ura­tion test, for in­stance or had tak­en up goat charm­ing like Aber­forth…

Har­ry got to his feet and scanned the floor: Per­haps the rest of the let­ter was here some­where. He seized pa­pers, treat­ing them in his ea­ger­ness, with as lit­tle con­sid­er­ation as the orig­inal searcher, he pulled open draw­ers, shook out books, stood on a chair to run his hand over the top of the wardrobe, and crawled un­der the bed and arm­chair.

At last, ly­ing face­down on the floor, he spot­ted what looked like a torn piece of pa­per un­der the chest of draw­ers. When he pulled it out, it proved to be most of the pho­to­graph that Lily had de­scribed in her let­ter. A black-​haired ba­by was zoom­ing in and out of the pic­ture on a tiny broom, roar­ing with laugh­ter, and a pair of legs that must have be­longed to James was chas­ing af­ter him. Har­ry tucked the pho­to­graph in­to his pock­et with Lily’s let­ter and con­tin­ued to look for the sec­ond sheet.

Af­ter an­oth­er quar­ter of an hour, how­ev­er he was forced to con­clude that the rest of his moth­er’s let­ter was gone. Had it sim­ply been lost in the six­teen years that had elapsed since it had been writ­ten, or had it been tak­en by who­ev­er had searched the room? Har­ry read the first sheet again, this time look­ing for clues as to what might have made the sec­ond sheet valu­able. His toy broom­stick could hard­ly be con­sid­ered in­ter­est­ing to the Death Eaters… The on­ly po­ten­tial­ly use­ful thing he could see her was pos­si­ble in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore. It seems in­cred­ible that Dum­ble­dore – what?

“Har­ry? Har­ry? Har­ry!”

“I’m here!” he called, “What’s hap­pened?”

There was a clat­ter of foot­steps out­side the door, and Hermione burst in­side.

“We woke up and didn’t know where you were!” she said breath­less­ly. She turned and shout­ed over her shoul­der, “Ron! I’ve found him”

Ron’s an­noyed voice echoed dis­tant­ly from sev­er­al floors be­low.

“Good! Tell him from me he’s a git!”

“Har­ry don’t just dis­ap­pear, please, we were ter­ri­fied! Why did you come up here any­way?” She gazed around the ran­sacked room. “What have you been do­ing?”

“Look what I’ve just found”

He held out his moth­er’s let­ter. Hermione took it out and read it while Har­ry watched her. When she reached the end of the page she looked up at him.

“Oh Har­ry…” “And there’s this too”

He hand­ed her the torn pho­to­graph, and Hermione smiled at the ba­by zoom­ing in and out of sight on the toy broom.

“I’ve been look­ing for the rest of the let­ter,” Har­ry said, “but it’s not here.”

Hermione glanced around.

“Did you make all this mess, or was some of it done when you got here?”

“Some­one had searched be­fore me,” said Har­ry.

“I thought so. Ev­ery room I looked in­to on the way up had been dis­turbed. What were they af­ter, do you think?”

“In­for­ma­tion on the Or­der, if it was Snape.”

“But you’d think he’d al­ready have all he need­ed. I mean was in the Or­der, wasn’t he?”

“Well then,” said Har­ry, keen to dis­cuss his the­ory, “what about in­for­ma­tion on Dum­ble­dore? The sec­ond page of the let­ter, for in­stance. You know this Bathil­da my mum men­tions, you know who she is?”

“Who?”

“Bathil­da Bagshot, the au­thor of –“

“A His­to­ry of Mag­ic,” said Hermione, look­ing in­ter­est­ed. “So your par­ents knew her? She was an in­cred­ible mag­ic his­to­ri­an.”

“And she’s still alive,” said Har­ry, “and she lives in Go­dric’s Hol­low. Ron’s Aun­tie Muriel was talk­ing about her at the wed­ding. She knew Dum­ble­dore’s fam­ily too. Be pret­ty in­ter­est­ing to talk to, wouldn’t she?” There was a lit­tle too much un­der­stand­ing in the smile Hermione gave him for Har­ry’s lik­ing. He took back the let­ter and the pho­to­graph and tucked them in­side the pouch around his neck, so as not to have to look at her and give him­self away. “I un­der­stand why you’d love to talk to her about your mum and dad, and Dum­ble­dore too,” said Hermione. “But that wouldn’t re­al­ly help us in our search for the Hor­crux­es, would it?” Har­ry did not an­swer, and she rushed on, “Har­ry, I know you re­al­ly want to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low, but I’m scared. I’m scared at how eas­ily those Death Eaters found us yes­ter­day. It just makes me feel more than ev­er that we ought to avoid the place where your par­ents are buried, I’m sure they’d be ex­pect­ing you to vis­it it.”

“It’s not just that,” Har­ry said, still avoid­ing look­ing at her, “Muriel said stuff about Dum­ble­dore at the wed­ding. I want to know the truth…”

He told Hermione ev­ery­thing that Muriel had told him. When he had fin­ished, Hermione said, “Of course, I can see why that’s up­set you, Har­ry –“

“I’m not up­set,” he lied, “I’d just like to know whether or not it’s true or –“

“Har­ry do you re­al­ly think you’ll get the truth from a ma­li­cious old wom­an like Muriel, or from Ri­ta Skeeter? How can you be­lieve them? You knew Dum­ble­dore!”

“I thought I did,” he mut­tered.

“But you know how much truth there was in ev­ery­thing Ri­ta wrote about you! Doge is right, how can you let these peo­ple tar­nish your mem­ories of Dum­ble­dore?”

He looked away, try­ing not to be­tray the re­sent­ment he felt. There it was again: Choose what to be­lieve. He want­ed the truth. Why was ev­ery­body so de­ter­mined that he should not get it?

“Shall we go down to the kitchen?” Hermione sug­gest­ed af­ter a lit­tle pause. “Find some­thing for break­fast?”

He agreed, but grudg­ing­ly, and fol­lowed her out on­to the land­ing and past the sec­ond door that led off it. There were deep scratch marks in the paint­work be­low a small sign that he had not no­ticed in the dark. He passed at the top of the stairs to read it. It was a pompous lit­tle sign, neat­ly let­tered by hand the sort of thing that Per­cy Weasley might have stuck on his bed­room door.



Do Not En­ter

With­out the Ex­press Per­mis­sion of

Reg­ulus Arc­turus Black



Ex­cite­ment trick­led through Har­ry, but he was not im­me­di­ate­ly sure why. He read the sign again. Hermione was al­ready a flight of stairs be­low him.

“Hermione,” he said, and he was sur­prised that his voice was so calm. “Come back up here.”

“What’s the mat­ter?”

“R.A.B. I think I’ve found him.”

There was a gasp, and then Hermione ran back up the stairs.

“In your mum’s let­ter? But I didn’t see –“

Har­ry shook his head, point­ing at Reg­ulus’s sign. She read it, then clutched Har­ry’s arm so tight­ly that he winced.

“Sir­ius’s broth­er?” she whis­pered.

“He was a Death Eater,” said Har­ry. “Sir­ius told me about him, he joined up when he was re­al­ly young and then got cold feet and tried to leave – so they killed him.”

“That fits!” gasped Hermione. “If he was a Death Eater he had ac­cess to Volde­mort, and if he be­came dis­en­chant­ed, then he would have want­ed to bring Volde­mort down!”

She re­leased Har­ry, leaned over the ban­is­ter, and screamed, “Ron! RON! Get up here, quick!”

Ron ap­peared, pant­ing, a minute lat­er, his wand ready in his hand.

“What’s up? If it’s mas­sive spi­ders again I want break­fast be­fore I –“

He frowned at the sign on Reg­ulus’s door, in which Hermione was silent­ly point­ing.

“What? That was Sir­ius’s broth­er, wasn’t it? Reg­ulus Arc­turus … Reg­ulus … R.A.B.! The lock­et – you don’t reck­on -- ?”

“Let’s find out,” said Har­ry. He pushed the door: It was locked. Hermione point­ed her wand at the han­dle and said, “Alo­hamo­ra.” There was a click, and the door swung open.

They moved over the thresh­old to­geth­er, gaz­ing around. Reg­ulus’s bed­room was slight­ly small­er than Sir­ius’s, though it had the same sense of for­mer grandeur. Where­as Sir­ius had sought to ad­ver­tise his dif­fi­dence from the rest of the fam­ily, Reg­ulus had striv­en to em­pha­size the op­po­site. The Slytherin col­ors of emer­ald and sil­ver were ev­ery­where, drap­ing the bed, the walls, and the win­dows. The Black fam­ily crest was painstak­ing­ly paint­ed over the bed, along with its mot­to, TOU­JOURS PUR. Be­neath this was a col­lec­tion of yel­low news­pa­per cut­tings, all stuck to­geth­er to make a ragged col­lage. Hermione crossed the room to ex­am­ine them.

“They’re all about Volde­mort,” she said. “Reg­ulus seems to have been a fan for a few years be­fore he joined the Death Eaters …”

A lit­tle puff of dust rose from the bed­cov­ers as she sat down to read the clip­pings. Har­ry, mean­while, had no­ticed an­oth­er pho­to­graph: a Hog­warts Quid­ditch team was smil­ing and wav­ing out of the frame. He moved clos­er and saw the snakes em­bla­zoned on their chests: Slytherins. Reg­ulus was in­stant­ly rec­og­niz­able as the boy sit­ting in the mid­dle of the front row: He had the same dark hair and slight­ly haughty look of his broth­er, though he was small­er, slighter, and rather less hand­some than Sir­ius had been.

“He played Seek­er,” said Har­ry.

“What?” said Hermione vague­ly; she was still im­mersed in Volde­mort’s press clip­pings.

“He’s sit­ting in the mid­dle of the front row, that’s where the Seek­er … Nev­er mind,” said Har­ry, re­al­iz­ing that no­body was lis­ten­ing. Ron was on his hands and knees, search­ing un­der the wardrobe. Har­ry looked around the room for like­ly hid­ing places and ap­proached the desk. Yet again, some­body had searched be­fore them. The draw­ers’ con­tents had been turned over re­cent­ly, the dust dis­turbed, but there was noth­ing of val­ue there: old quills, out-​of-​date text­books that bore ev­idence of be­ing rough­ly han­dled, a re­cent­ly smashed ink bot­tle, its sticky residue cov­er­ing the con­tents of the draw­er.

“There’s an eas­ier way,” said Hermione, as Har­ry wiped his inky fin­gers on his jeans. She raised her wand and said, “Ac­cio Lock­et!”

Noth­ing hap­pened. Ron, who had been search­ing the folds of the fad­ed cur­tains, looked dis­ap­point­ed.

“Is that it, then? It’s not here?”

“Oh, it could still be here, but un­der counter-​en­chant­ments,” said Hermione. “Charms to pre­vent it from be­ing sum­moned mag­ical­ly, you know.”

“Like Volde­mort put on the stone basin in the cave,” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing how he had been un­able to Sum­mon the fake lock­et.

“How are we sup­posed to find it then?” asked Ron.

“We search man­ual­ly,” said Hermione.

“That’s a good idea,” said Ron, rolling his eyes, and he re­sumed his ex­am­ina­tion of the cur­tains.

They combed ev­ery inch of the room for more than an hour, but were forced, fi­nal­ly, to con­clude that the lock­et was not there.

The sun had risen now; its light daz­zled them even through the grimy land­ing win­dows.

“It could be some­where else in the house, though,” said Hermione in a ral­ly­ing tone as they walked back down­stairs. As Har­ry and Ron had be­come more dis­cour­aged, she seemed to have be­come more de­ter­mined. “Whether he’d man­age to de­stroy it or not, he’d want to keep it hid­den from Volde­mort, wouldn’t he? Re­mem­ber all those aw­ful things we had to get rid of when we were here last time? That clock that shot bolts at ev­ery­one and those old robes that tried to stran­gle Ron; Reg­ulus might have put them there to pro­tect the lock­et’s hid­ing place, even though we didn’t re­al­ize it at … at … “

Har­ry and Ron looked at her. She was stand­ing with one foot in midair, with the dumb­struck look of one who had just been Oblivi­at­ed: her eyes had even drift­ed out of fo­cus.

“… at the time,” she fin­ished in a whis­per.

“Some­thing wrong?” asked Ron.

“There was a lock­et.”

“What?” said Har­ry and Ron to­geth­er.

“In the cab­inet in the draw­ing room. No­body could open it. And we … we … “

Har­ry felt as though a brick had slid down through his chest in­to his stom­ach. He re­mem­bered. He had even han­dled the thing as they passed it around, each try­ing in turn to pry it open. It had been tossed in­to a sack of rub­bish, along with the snuff­box of Wart­cap pow­der and the mu­sic box that had made ev­ery­one sleepy …”

“Kreach­er nicked loads of things back from us,” said Har­ry. It was the on­ly chance, the on­ly slen­der hope left to them, and he was go­ing to cling to it un­til forced to let go. “He had a whole stash of stuff in his cup­board in the kitchen. C’mon.”

He ran down the stairs tak­ing two steps at a time, the oth­er two thun­der­ing along in his wake. They made so much noise that they woke the por­trait of Sir­ius’s moth­er as they passed through the hall.

“Filth! Mud­bloods! Scum!” she screamed af­ter them as they dashed down in­to the base­ment kitchen and slammed the door be­hind them. Har­ry ran the length of the room, skid­ded to a halt at the door of Kreach­er’s cup­board, and wrenched it open. There was the nest of dirty old blan­kets in which the house-​elf had once slept, but they were not longer glit­ter­ing with the trin­kets Kreach­er had sal­vaged. The on­ly thing there was an old copy of Na­ture’s No­bil­ity: A Wiz­ard­ing Ge­neal­ogy. Re­fus­ing to be­lieve his eyes, Har­ry snatched up the blan­kets and shook them. A dead mouse fell out and rolled dis­mal­ly across the floor. Ron groaned as he threw him­self in­to a kitchen chair; Hermione closed her eyes.

“It’s not over yet,” said Har­ry, and he raised his voice and called, “Kreach­er!”

There was a loud crack and the house elf that Har­ry had so re­luc­tant­ly in­her­it­ed from Sir­ius ap­peared out of nowhere in front of the cold and emp­ty fire­place: tiny, half hu­man-​sized, his pale skin hang­ing off him in folds, white hair sprout­ing co­pi­ous­ly from his bat­like ears. He was still wear­ing the filthy rag in which they had first met him, and the con­temp­tu­ous look he bent up­on Har­ry showed that his at­ti­tude to his change of own­er­ship had al­tered no more than his out­fit.

“Mas­ter,” croaked Kreach­er in his bull­frog’s voice, and he bowed low; mut­ter­ing to his knees, “back in my Mis­tress’s old house with the blood-​traitor Weasley and the Mud­blood –“

“I for­bid you to call any­one ‘blood traitor’ or ‘Mud­blood,’” growled Har­ry. He would have found Kreach­er, with his snout­like nose and blood­shot eyes, a dis­tinc­tive­ly unlov­able ob­ject even if the elf had not be­trayed Sir­ius to Volde­mort.

“I’ve got a ques­tion for you,” said Har­ry, his heart beat­ing rather fast as he looked down at the elf, “and I or­der you to an­swer it truth­ful­ly. Un­der­stand?”

“Yes, Mas­ter,” said Kreach­er, bow­ing low again. Har­ry saw his lips mov­ing sound­less­ly, un­doubt­ed­ly fram­ing the in­sults he was now for­bid­den to ut­ter.

“Two years ago,” said Har­ry, his heart now ham­mer­ing against his ribs, “there was a big gold lock­et in the draw­ing room up­stairs. We threw it out. Did you steal it back?”

There was a mo­ment’s si­lence, dur­ing which Kreach­er straight­ened up to look Har­ry full in the face. Then he said, “Yes.”

“Where is it now?” asked Har­ry ju­bi­lant­ly as Ron and Hermione looked glee­ful.

Kreach­er closed his eyes as though he could not bear to see their re­ac­tions to his next word.

“Gone.”

“Gone?” echoed Har­ry, ela­tion float­ing out of him, “What do you mean, it’s gone?”

The elf shiv­ered. He swayed.

“Kreach­er,” said Har­ry fierce­ly, “I or­der you –“

“Mundun­gus Fletch­er,” croaked the elf, his eyes still tight shut. “Mundun­gus Fletch­er stole it all; Miss Bel­la’s and Miss Cis­sy’s pic­tures, my Mis­tress’s gloves, the Or­der of Mer­lin, First Class, the gob­lets with the fam­ily crest, and – and – “

Kreach­er was gulp­ing for air: His hol­low chest was ris­ing and falling rapid­ly, then his eyes flew open and he ut­tered a blood­cur­dling scream.

“—and the lock­et, Mas­ter Reg­ulus’s lock­et. Kreach­er did wrong, Kreach­er failed in his or­ders!”

Har­ry re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly: As Kreach­er lunged for the pok­er stand­ing in the grate, he launched him­self up­on the elf, flat­ten­ing him. Hermione’s scream min­gled with Kreach­er’s but Har­ry bel­lowed loud­er than both of them: “Kreach­er, I or­der you to stay still!”

He felt the elf freeze and re­leased him. Kreach­er lay flat on the cold stone floor, tears gush­ing from his sag­ging eyes.

“Har­ry, let him up!” Hermione whis­pered.

“So he can beat him­self up with the pok­er?” snort­ed Har­ry, kneel­ing be­side the elf. “I don’t think so. Right. Kreach­er, I want the truth: How do you know Mundun­gus Fletch­er stole the lock­et?”

“Kreach­er saw him!” gasped the elf as tears poured over his snout and in­to his mouth full of gray­ing teeth. “Kreach­er saw him com­ing out of Kreach­er’s cup­board with his hands full of Kreach­er’s trea­sures. Kreach­er told the sneak thief to stop, but Mundun­gus Fletch­er laughed and r-​ran … “

“You called the lock­et ‘Mas­ter Reg­ulus’s,’” said Har­ry. “Why? Where did it come from? What did Reg­ulus have to do with it? Kreach­er, sit up and tell me ev­ery­thing you know about that lock­et, and ev­ery­thing Reg­ulus had to do with it!”

The elf sat up, curled in­to a ball, placed his wet face be­tween his knees, and be­gan to rock back­ward and for­ward. When he spoke, his voice was muf­fled but quite dis­tinct in the silent, echo­ing kitchen.

“Mas­ter Sir­ius ran away, good rid­dance, for he was a bad boy and broke my Mis­tress’s heart with his law­less ways. But Mas­ter Reg­ulus had prop­er or­der; he knew what was due to the name of Black and the dig­ni­ty of his pure blood. For years he talked of the Dark Lord, who was go­ing to bring the wiz­ards out of hid­ing to rule the Mug­gles and the Mug­gle-​borns … and when he was six­teen years old, Mas­ter Reg­ulus joined the Dark Lord. So proud, so proud, so hap­py to serve …

And one day, a year af­ter he joined, Mas­ter Reg­ulus came down to the kitchen to see Kreach­er. Mas­ter Reg­ulus al­ways liked Kreach­er. And Mas­ter Reg­ulus said … he said …”

The old elf rocked faster than ev­er.

“… he said that the Dark Lord re­quired an elf.”

“Volde­mort need­ed an elf?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, look­ing around at Ron and Hermione, who looked just as puz­zled as he did.

“Oh yes,” moaned Kreach­er. “And Mas­ter Reg­ulus had vol­un­teered Kreach­er. It was an hon­or, said Mas­ter Reg­ulus, an hon­or for him and for Kreach­er, who must be sure to do what­ev­er the Dark Lord or­dered him to do … and then to c-​come home.”

Kreach­er rocked still faster, his breath com­ing in sobs.

“So Kreach­er went to the Dark Lord. The Dark Lord did not tell Kreach­er what they were to do, but took Kreach­er with him to a cave be­side the sea. And be­yond the cave was a cav­ern, and in the cav­ern was a great black lake … “

The hairs on the back of Har­ry’s neck stood up. Kreach­er’s croak­ing voice seemed to come to him from across the dark wa­ter. He saw what had hap­pened as clear­ly as though he had been present.

“… There was a boat …”

Of course there had been a boat; Har­ry knew the boat, ghost­ly green and tiny, be­witched so as to car­ry one wiz­ard and one vic­tim to­ward the is­land in the cen­ter. This, then, was how Volde­mort had test­ed the de­fens­es sur­round­ing the Hor­crux, by bor­row­ing a dis­pos­able crea­ture, a house-​elf…

“There was a b-​basin full of po­tion on the is­land. The D-​Dark Lord made Kreach­er drink it …”

The elf quaked from head to foot.

“Kreach­er drank, and as he drank he saw ter­ri­ble thing … Kreach­er’s in­sides burned … Kreach­er cried for Mas­ter Reg­ulus to save him, he cried for his Mis­tress Black, but the Dark Lord on­ly laughed … He made Kreach­er drink all the po­tion … He dropped a lock­et in­to the emp­ty basin … He filled it with more po­tion.”

“And then the Dark Lord sailed away, leav­ing Kreach­er on the is­land … “

Har­ry could see it hap­pen­ing. He watched Volde­mort’s white, snake­like face van­ish­ing in­to dark­ness, those red eyes fixed piti­less­ly on the thrash­ing elf whose death would oc­cur with­in min­utes, when­ev­er he suc­cumbed to the des­per­ate thirst that the burn­ing poi­son caused its vic­tim … But here, Har­ry’s imag­ina­tion could go no fur­ther, for he could not see how Kreach­er had es­caped.

“Kreach­er need­ed wa­ter, he crawled to the is­land’s edge and he drank from the black lake … and hands, dead hands, came out of the wa­ter and dragged Kreach­er un­der the sur­face … “

“How did you get away?” Har­ry asked, and he was not sur­prised to hear him­self whis­per­ing.

Kreach­er raised his ug­ly head and looked Har­ry with his great, blood­shot eyes.

“Mas­ter Reg­ulus told Kreach­er to come back,” he said.

“I know – but how did you es­cape the In­feri?”

Kreach­er did not seem to un­der­stand.

“Mas­ter Reg­ulus told Kreach­er to come back,” he re­peat­ed.

“I know, but – “

“Well, it’s ob­vi­ous, isn’t it, Har­ry?” said Ron. “He Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed!”

“But … you couldn’t Ap­pa­rate in and out of that cave,” said Har­ry, “oth­er­wise Dum­ble­dore – “

“Elf mag­ic isn’t like wiz­ard’s mag­ic, is it?” said Ron, “I mean, they can Ap­pa­rate and Dis­ap­pa­rate in and out of Hog­warts when we can’t.”

There was a si­lence as Har­ry di­gest­ed this. How could Volde­mort have made such a mis­take? But even as he thought this, Hermione spoke, and her voice was icy.

“Of course, Volde­mort would have con­sid­ered the ways of house-​elves far be­neath his no­tice … It would nev­er have oc­curred to him that they might have mag­ic that he didn’t.”

“The house-​elf’s high­est law is his Mas­ter’s bid­ding,” in­toned Kreach­er. “Kreach­er was told to come home, so Kreach­er came home … “

“Well, then, you did what you were told, didn’t you?” said Hermione kind­ly. “You didn’t dis­obey or­ders at all!”

Kreach­er shook his head, rock­ing as fast as ev­er.

“So what hap­pened when you got back?” Har­ry asked. “What did Reg­ulus say when you told him what hap­pened?”

“Mas­ter Reg­ulus was very wor­ried, very wor­ried,” croaked Kreach­er. “Mas­ter Reg­ulus told Kreach­er to stay hid­den and not to leave the house. And then … it was a lit­tle while lat­er … Mas­ter Reg­ulus came to find Kreach­er in his cup­board one night, and Mas­ter Reg­ulus was strange, not as he usu­al­ly was, dis­turbed in his mind, Kreach­er could tell … and he asked Kreach­er to take him to the cave, the cave where Kreach­er had gone with the Dark Lord … “

And so they had set off. Har­ry could vi­su­al­ize them quite clear­ly, the fright­ened old elf and the thin, dark Seek­er who had so re­sem­bled Sir­ius … Kreach­er knew how to open the con­cealed en­trance to the un­der­ground cav­ern, knew how to raise the tiny boat: this time it was his beloved Reg­ulus who sailed with him to the is­land with its basin of poi­son …

“And he made you drink the poi­son?” said Har­ry, dis­gust­ed.

But Kreach­er shook his head and wept. Hermione’s hands leapt to her mouth: She seemed to have un­der­stood some­thing.

“M-​Mas­ter Reg­ulus took from his pock­et a lock­et like the one the Dark Lord had,” said Kreach­er, tears pour­ing down ei­ther side of his snout­like nose. “And he told Kreach­er to take it and, when the basin was emp­ty, to switch the lock­ets …”

Kreach­er’s sobs came in great rasps now; Har­ry had to con­cen­trate hard to un­der­stand him.

“And he or­der – Kreach­er to leave – with­out him. And he told Kreach­er – to go home – and nev­er to tell my Mis­tress – what he had done – but to de­stroy – the first lock­et. And he drank – all the po­tion – and Kreach­er swapped the lock­ets – and watched … as Mas­ter Reg­ulus … was dragged be­neath the wa­ter … and … “

“Oh, Kreach­er!” wailed Hermione, who was cry­ing. She dropped to her knees be­side the elf and tried to hug him. At once he was on his feet, cring­ing away from her, quite ob­vi­ous­ly re­pulsed.

“The Mud­blood touched Kreach­er, he will not al­low it, what would his Mis­tress say?”

“I told you not to call her ‘Mud­blood’!” snarled Har­ry, but the elf was al­ready pun­ish­ing him­self. He fell to the ground and banged his fore­head on the floor.

“Stop him – stop him!” Hermione cried. “Oh, don’t you see now how sick it is, the way they’ve got to obey?”

“Kreach­er – stop, stop!” shout­ed Har­ry.

The elf lay on the floor, pant­ing and shiv­er­ing, green mu­cus glis­ten­ing around his snot, a bruise al­ready bloom­ing on his pal­lid fore­head where he had struck him­self, his eyes swollen and blood­shot and swim­ming in tears. Har­ry had nev­er seen any­thing so piti­ful.

“So you brought the lock­et home,” he said re­lent­less­ly, for he was de­ter­mined to know the full sto­ry. “And you tried to de­stroy it?”

“Noth­ing Kreach­er did made any mark up­on it,” moaned the elf. “Kreach­er tried ev­ery­thing, ev­ery­thing he knew, but noth­ing, noth­ing would work … So many pow­er­ful spells up­on the cas­ing, Kreach­er was sure the way to de­stroy it was to get in­side it, but it would not open … Kreach­er pun­ished him­self, he tried again, he pun­ished him­self, he tried again. Kreach­er failed to obey or­ders, Kreach­er could not de­stroy the lock­et! And his mis­tress was mad with grief, be­cause Mas­ter Reg­ulus had dis­ap­peared and Kreach­er could not tell her what had hap­pened, no, be­cause Mas­ter Reg­ulus had f-​f-​for­bid­den him to tell any of the f-​f-​fam­ily what hap­pened in the c-​cave …”

Kreach­er be­gan to sob so hard that there were no more co­her­ent words. Tears flowed down Hermione’s cheeks as she watched Kreach­er, but she did not dare touch him again. Even Ron, who was no fan of Kreach­er’s, looked trou­bled. Har­ry sat back on his heels and shook his head, try­ing to clear it.

“I don’t un­der­stand you, Kreach­er,” he said fi­nal­ly. “Volde­mort tried to kill you, Reg­ulus died to bring Volde­mort down, but you were still hap­py to be­tray Sir­ius to Volde­mort? You were hap­py to go to Nar­cis­sa and Bel­la­trix, and pass in­for­ma­tion to Volde­mort through them … “

“Har­ry, Kreach­er doesn’t think like that,” said Hermione, wip­ing her eyes on the back of her hand. “He’s a slave; house-​elves are used to bad, even bru­tal treat­ment; what Volde­mort did to Kreach­er wasn’t that far out of the com­mon way. What do wiz­ard wars mean to an elf like Kreach­er? He’s loy­al to peo­ple who are kind to him, and Mrs. Black must have been, and Reg­ulus cer­tain­ly was, so he served them will­ing­ly and par­rot­ed their be­liefs. I know what you’re go­ing to say,” she went on as Har­ry be­gan to protest, “that Reg­ulus changed his mind … but he doesn’t seem to have ex­plained that to Kreach­er, does he?” And I think I know why. Kreach­er and Reg­ulus’s fam­ily were all safest if they kept to the old pure-​blood line. Reg­ulus was try­ing to pro­tect them all.”

“Sir­ius – “

“Sir­ius was hor­ri­ble to Kreach­er, Har­ry, and it’s no good look­ing like that, you know it’s true. Kreach­er had been alone for such a long time when Sir­ius came to live here, and he was prob­ably starv­ing for a bit of af­fec­tion. I’m sure ‘Miss Cis­sy’ and ‘Miss Bel­la’ were per­fect­ly love­ly to Kreach­er when he turned up, so he did them a fa­vor and told them ev­ery­thing they want­ed to know. I’ve said all along that wiz­ards would pay for how they treat house-​elves. Well, Volde­mort did … and so did Sir­ius.”

Har­ry had no re­tort. As he watched Kreach­er sob­bing on the floor, he re­mem­bered what Dum­ble­dore had said to him, mere hours af­ter Sir­ius’s death: I do not think Sir­ius ev­er saw Kreach­er as a be­ing with feel­ings as acute as a hu­man’s …

“Kreach­er,” said Har­ry af­ter a while, “when you feel up to it, er … please sit up.”

It was sev­er­al min­utes be­fore Kreach­er hic­cupped him­self in­to si­lence. Then he pushed him­self in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion again, rub­bing his knuck­les in­to his eyes like a small child.

“Kreach­er, I am go­ing to ask you to do some­thing,” said Har­ry. He glanced at Hermione for as­sis­tance. He want­ed to give the or­der kind­ly, but at the same time, he could not pre­tend that it was not an or­der. How­ev­er, the change in his tone seemed to have gained her ap­proval: She smiled en­cour­ag­ing­ly.

“Kreach­er, I want you, please, to go and find Mundun­gus Fletch­er. We need to find out where the lock­et – where Mas­ter Reg­ulus’s lock­et it. It’s re­al­ly im­por­tant. We want to fin­ish the work Mas­ter Reg­ulus start­ed, we want to – er – en­sure that he didn’t die in vain.”

Kreach­er dropped his fists and looked up at Har­ry.

“Find Mundun­gus Fletch­er?” he croaked.

And bring him here, to Grim­mauld Place ,” said Har­ry. “Do you think you could do that for us?”

As Kreach­er nod­ded and got to his feet, Har­ry had a sud­den in­spi­ra­tion. He pulled out Ha­grid’s purse and took out the fake Hor­crux, the sub­sti­tute lock­et in which Reg­ulus had placed the note to Volde­mort.

“Kreach­er, I’d, er, like you to have this,” he said, press­ing the lock­et in­to the elf’s hand. “This be­longed to Reg­ulus and I’m sure he’d want you to have it as a to­ken of grat­itude for what you—“

“Overkill, mate,” said Ron as the elf took one look at the lock­et, let out a howl of shock and mis­ery, and threw him­self back on­to the ground.

It took them near­ly half an hour to calm down Kreach­er, who was so over­come to be pre­sent­ed with a Black fam­ily heir­loom for his very own that he was too weak at the knees to stand prop­er­ly. When fi­nal­ly he was able to tot­ter a few steps they all ac­com­pa­nied him to his cup­board, watched him tuck up the lock­et safe­ly in his dirty blan­kets, and as­sured him that they would make its pro­tec­tion their first pri­or­ity while he was away. He then made two low bows to Har­ry and Ron, and even gave a fun­ny lit­tle spasm in Hermione’s di­rec­tion that might have been an at­tempt at a re­spect­ful salute, be­fore Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing with the usu­al loud crack.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER ELEVEN


THE BRIBE



If Kreach­er could es­cape a lake full of In­feri, Har­ry was con­fi­dent that the cap­ture of Mundun­gus would take a few hours at most, and he prowled the house all morn­ing in a state of high an­tic­ipa­tion. How­ev­er, Kreach­er did not re­turn that morn­ing or even that af­ter­noon. By night­fall, Har­ry felt dis­cour­aged and anx­ious, and a sup­per com­posed large­ly of moldy bread, up­on which Hermione had tried a va­ri­ety of un­suc­cess­ful Trans­fig­ura­tions, did noth­ing to help.

Kreach­er did not re­turn the fol­low­ing day, nor the day af­ter that. How­ev­er, two cloaked men had ap­peared in the square out­side num­ber twelve, and they re­mained there in­to the night, gaz­ing in the di­rec­tion of the house that they could not see.

“Death Eaters, for sure,” said Ron, as he, Har­ry, and Hermione watched from the draw­ing room win­dows. “Reck­on they know we’re in here?”

“I don’t think so,” said Hermione, though she looked fright­ened, “or they’d have sent Snape in af­ter us, wouldn’t they?”

“D’you reck­on he’s been in here and has his tongue tied by Moody’s curse?” asked Ron.

“Yes,” said Hermione, “oth­er­wise he’d have been able to tell that lot how to get in, wouldn’t he? But they’re prob­ably watch­ing to see whether we turn up. They know that Har­ry owns the house, af­ter all.”

“How do they --?” be­gan Har­ry.

“Wiz­ard­ing wills are ex­am­ined by the Min­istry, re­mem­ber? They’ll know Sir­ius left you the place.”

The pres­ence of the Death Eaters out­side in­creased the omi­nous mood in­side num­ber twelve. They had not heard a word form any­one be­yond Grim­mauld Place since Mr. Weasley’s Pa­tronus, and the strain was start­ing to tell. Rest­less and ir­ri­ta­ble, Ron had de­vel­oped an an­noy­ing habit of play­ing with the De­lu­mi­na­tor in his pock­et; This par­tic­ular­ly in­fu­ri­at­ed Hermione, who was whiling away the wait for Kreach­er by study­ing The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard and did not ap­pre­ci­ate the way the lights kept flash­ing on and off.

“Will you stop it!” she cried on the third evening of Kreach­er’s ab­sence, as all the light was sucked from the draw­ing room yet again.

“Sor­ry, sor­ry!” said Ron, click­ing the De­lu­mi­na­tor and restor­ing the lights. “I don’t know I’m do­ing it!”

“Well, can’t you find some­thing use­ful to oc­cu­py your­self?”

“What, like read­ing kids’ sto­ries?”

“Dum­ble­dore left me this book, Ron –”

“—and he left me the De­lu­mi­na­tor, maybe I’m sup­posed to use it!”

Un­able to stand the bick­er­ing, Har­ry slipped out of the room un­no­ticed by ei­ther of them. He head­ed down­stairs to­ward the kitchen, which he kept vis­it­ing be­cause he was sure that was where Kreach­er was most like­ly to reap­pear. Halfway down the flight of stairs in­to the hall, how­ev­er, he heard a tap on the front door, then metal­lic clicks and the grind­ing of the chain.

Ev­ery nerve in his body seemed to taut­en: He pulled out his wand, moved in­to the shad­ows be­side the de­cap­itat­ed elf heads, and wait­ed. The door opened: He saw a glimpse of the lam­plit square out­side, and a cloaked fig­ure edged in­to the hall and closed the door be­hind it. The in­trud­er took a step for­ward, and Moody’s voice asked, “Severus Snape?” Then the dust fig­ure rose from the end of the hall and rushed him, rais­ing its dead hand.

“It was not I who killed you, Al­bus,” said a qui­et voice.

The jinx broke: The dust-​fig­ure ex­plod­ed again, and it was im­pos­si­ble to make out the new­com­er through the dense gray cloud it left be­hind.

Har­ry point­ed the wand in­to the mid­dle of it.

“Don’t move!”

He had for­got­ten the por­trait of Mrs. Black: At the sound of his yell, the cur­tains hid­ing her flew open and she be­gan to scream, “Mud­bloods and filth dis­hon­or­ing my house –”

Ron and Hermione came crash­ing down the stairs be­hind Har­ry, wands point­ing, like his, at the un­known man now stand­ing with his arms raised in the hall be­low.

“Hold your fire, it’s me, Re­mus!”

“Oh, thank good­ness,” said Hermione weak­ly, point­ing her wand at Mrs. Black in­stead; with a bang, the cur­tains swished shut again and si­lence fell. Ron too low­ered his wand, but Har­ry did not.

“Show your­self!” he called back.

Lupin moved for­ward in­to the lamp­light, hands still held high in a ges­ture of sur­ren­der.

“I am Re­mus John Lupin, were­wolf, some­times known as Moony, one of the four cre­ators of the Ma­raud­er’s Map, mar­ried to Nymphado­ra, usu­al­ly known as Tonks, and I taught you how to pro­duce a Pa­tronus, Har­ry, which takes the form of a stag.”

“Oh, all right,” said Har­ry, low­er­ing his wand, “but I had to check, didn’t I?”

“Speak­ing as your ex-​De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er, I quite agree that you had to check. Ron, Hermione, you shouldn’t be so quick to low­er your de­fens­es.”

They ran down the stairs to­wards him. Wrapped in a thick black trav­el­ing cloak, he looked ex­haust­ed, but pleased to see them.

“No sign of Severus, then?” he asked.

“No,” said Har­ry. “What’s go­ing on? Is ev­ery­one okay?’

“Yes,” said Lupin, “but we’re all be­ing watched. There are a cou­ple of Death Eaters in the square out­side –”

“We know –”

“I had to Ap­pa­rate very pre­cise­ly on­to the top step out­side the front door to be sure that they would not see me. They can’t know you’re in here or I’m sure they’d have more peo­ple out there; they’re stak­ing out ev­ery­where that’s got any con­nec­tion with you, Har­ry. Let’s go down­stairs, there’s a lot to tell you, and I want to know what hap­pened af­ter you left the Bur­row.”

They de­scend­ed in­to the kitchen, where Hermione point­ed her wand at the grate. A fire sprang up in­stant­ly: It gave the il­lu­sion of co­zi­ness to the stark stone walls and glis­tened off the long wood­en ta­ble. Lupin pulled a few but­ter­beers from be­neath his trav­el­ing cloak and they sat down.

“I’d have been here three days ago but I need­ed to shake off the Death Eater tail­ing me,” said Lupin. “So, you came straight here af­ter the wed­ding?”

“No,” said Har­ry, “on­ly af­ter we ran in­to a cou­ple of Death Eaters in a café on Tot­ten­ham Court Road.”

Lupin slopped most of his but­ter­beer down his front.

“What?”

They ex­plained what had hap­pened; when they had fin­ished, Lupin looked aghast.

“But how did they find you so quick­ly? It’s im­pos­si­ble to track any­one who Ap­pa­rates, un­less you grab hold of them as they dis­ap­pear.”

“And it doesn’t seem like­ly they were just strolling down Tot­ten­ham Court Road at the time, does it?” said Har­ry.

“We won­dered,” said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly, “whether Har­ry could still have the Trace on him?”

“Im­pos­si­ble,” said Lupin. Ron looked smug, and Har­ry felt huge­ly re­lieved. “Apart from any­thing else, they’d know for sure Har­ry was here if he still had the Trace on him, wouldn’t they? But I can’t see how they could have tracked you to Tot­ten­ham Court Road, that’s wor­ry­ing, re­al­ly wor­ry­ing.”

He looked dis­turbed, but as far as Har­ry was con­cerned, that ques­tion could wait.

“Tell us what hap­pened af­ter we left, we haven’t heard a thing since Ron’s dad told us the fam­ily was safe.”

“Well, Kings­ley saved us,” said Lupin. “Thanks to his warn­ing most of the wed­ding guests were able to Dis­ap­pa­rate be­fore they ar­rived.”

“Were they Death Eaters or Min­istry peo­ple?” in­ter­ject­ed Hermione.

“A mix­ture; but to all in­tents and pur­pos­es they’re the same thing now,” said Lupin. “There were about a dozen of them, but they didn’t know you were there, Har­ry. Arthur heard a ru­mor that they tried to tor­ture your where­abouts out of Scrim­geour be­fore they killed him; if it’s true, he didn’t give you away.”

Har­ry looked at Ron and Hermione; their ex­pres­sions re­flect­ed the min­gled shock and grat­itude he felt. He had nev­er liked Scrim­geour much, but if what Lupin said was true, the man’s fi­nal act had been to try to pro­tect Har­ry.

“The Death Eaters searched the Bur­row from top to bot­tom,” Lupin went on. “They found the ghoul, but didn’t want to get too close – and then they in­ter­ro­gat­ed those of us who re­mained for hours. They were try­ing to get in­for­ma­tion on you, Har­ry, but of course no­body apart from the Or­der knew that you had been there.

“At the same time that they were smash­ing up the wed­ding, more Death Eaters were forc­ing their way in­to ev­ery Or­der-​con­nect­ed house in the coun­try. No deaths,” he added quick­ly, fore­stalling the ques­tion, “but they were rough. They burned down Dedalus Dig­gle’s house, but as you know he wasn’t there, and they used the Cru­cia­rus Curse on Tonks’s fam­ily. Again, try­ing to find out where you went af­ter you vis­it­ed them. They’re all right – shak­en, ob­vi­ous­ly, but oth­er­wise okay.”

“The Death Eaters got through all those pro­tec­tive charms?”

Har­ry asked, re­mem­ber­ing how ef­fec­tive these had been on the night he had crashed in Tonks’s par­ents’ gar­den.

“What you’ve got to re­al­ize, Har­ry, is that the Death Eaters have got the full might of the Min­istry on their side now,” said Lupin. “They’ve got the pow­er to per­form bru­tal spells with­out fear of iden­ti­fi­ca­tion or ar­rest. They man­aged to pen­etrate ev­ery de­fen­sive spell we’d cast against them, and once in­side, they were com­plete­ly open about why they’d come.”

“And are they both­er­ing to give an ex­cuse for tor­tur­ing Har­ry’s where­abouts out of peo­ple?” asked Hermione, an edge to her voice.

“Well,” Lupin said. He hes­itat­ed, then pulled out a fold­ed copy of the Dai­ly Prophet.

“Here,” he said, push­ing it across the ta­ble to Har­ry, “you’ll know soon­er or lat­er any­way. That’s their pre­text for go­ing af­ter you.”

Har­ry smoothed out the pa­per. A huge pho­to­graph of his own face filled the front page. He read the head­line over it:



WANT­ED FOR QUES­TION­ING ABOUT

THE DEATH OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE



Ron and Hermione gave roars of out­rage, but Har­ry said noth­ing. He pushed the news­pa­per away; he did not want to read any­more: He knew what it would say. No­body but those who had been on top of the tow­er when Dum­ble­dore died knew who had re­al­ly killed him and, as Ri­ta Skeeter had al­ready told the Wiz­ard­ing world, Har­ry had been seen run­ning from the place mo­ments af­ter Dum­ble­dore had fall­en.

“I’m sor­ry, Har­ry,” Lupin said.

“So Death Eaters have tak­en over the Dai­ly Prophet too?” asked Hermione fu­ri­ous­ly.

Lupin nod­ded.

“But sure­ly peo­ple re­al­ize what’s go­ing on?”

“The coup has been smooth and vir­tu­al­ly silent,” said Lupin.

“The of­fi­cial ver­sion of Scrim­geour’s mur­der is that he re­signed; he has been re­placed by Pius Thick­nesse, who is un­der the Im­perius Curse.”

“Why didn’t Volde­mort de­clare him­self Min­is­ter of Mag­ic?” asked Ron.

Lupin laughed.

“He doesn’t need to, Ron. Ef­fec­tive­ly, he is the Min­is­ter, but why should he sit be­hind a desk at the Min­istry? His pup­pet, Thick­nesse, is tak­ing care of ev­ery­day busi­ness, leav­ing Volde­mort free to ex­tend his pow­er be­yond the Min­istry.

“Nat­ural­ly many peo­ple have de­duced what has hap­pened: There has been such a dra­mat­ic change in Min­istry pol­icy in the last few days, and many are whis­per­ing that Volde­mort must be be­hind it. How­ev­er, that is the point: They whis­per. They daren’t con­fide in each oth­er, not know­ing whom to trust; they are scared to speak out, in case their sus­pi­cions are true and their fam­ilies are tar­get­ed. Yes, Volde­mort is play­ing a very clever game. Declar­ing him­self might have pro­voked open re­bel­lion: Re­main­ing masked has cre­at­ed con­fu­sion, un­cer­tain­ty, and fear.”

“And this dra­mat­ic change in Min­istry pol­icy,” said Har­ry, “in­volves warn­ing the Wiz­ard­ing world against me in­stead of Volde­mort?”

“That’s cer­tain­ly a part of it,” said Lupin, “and it is a mas­ter­stroke. Now that Dum­ble­dore is dead, you – the Boy Who Lived – were sure to be the sym­bol and ral­ly­ing point for any re­sis­tance to Volde­mort. But by sug­gest­ing that you had a hand in the old hat’s death, Volde­mort has not on­ly set a price up­on your head, but sown doubt and fear amongst many who would have de­fend­ed you.

“Mean­while, the Min­istry has start­ed mov­ing against Mug­gle-​borns.”

Lupin point­ed at the Dai­ly Prophet.

“Look at page two.”

Hermione turned the pages with much the same ex­pres­sion of dis­taste she had when han­dling Se­crets of the Dark­est Art.

“Mug­gle-​born Reg­is­ter!” she read aloud. “‘The Min­istry of Mag­ic is un­der­tak­ing a sur­vey of so-​called “Mug­gle-​borns” the bet­ter to un­der­stand how they came to pos­sess mag­ical se­crets.

“‘Re­cent re­search un­der­tak­en by the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies re­veals that mag­ic can on­ly be passed from per­son to per­son when Wiz­ards re­pro­duce. Where no proven Wiz­ard­ing an­ces­try ex­ists, there­fore, the so-​called Mug­gle-​born is like­ly to have ob­tained mag­ical pow­er by theft or force.

“‘The Min­istry is de­ter­mined to root out such usurpers of mag­ical pow­er, and to this end has is­sued an in­vi­ta­tion to ev­ery so-​called Mug­gle-​born to present them­selves for in­ter­view by the new­ly ap­point­ed Mug­gle-​born Reg­is­tra­tion Com­mis­sion.’”

“Peo­ple won’t let this hap­pen,” said Ron.

“It is hap­pen­ing, Ron,” said Lupin. “Mug­gle-​borns are be­ing round­ed up as we speak.”

“But how are they sup­posed to have ‘stolen’ mag­ic?” said Ron. “It’s men­tal, if you could steal mag­ic there wouldn’t be any Squibs, would there?”

“I know,” said Lupin. “Nev­er­the­less, un­less you can prove that you have at least one close Wiz­ard­ing rel­ative, you are now deemed to have ob­tained your mag­ical pow­er il­le­gal­ly and must suf­fer the pun­ish­ment.”

Ron glanced at Hermione, then said, “What if pure­bloods and half­bloods swear a Mug­gle-​born’s part of their fam­ily? I’ll tell ev­ery­one Hermione’s my cousin –”

Hermione cov­ered Ron’s hand with hers and squeezed it.

“Thank you, Ron, but I couldn’t let you –”

“You won’t have a choice,” said Ron fierce­ly, grip­ping her hand back. “I’ll teach you my fam­ily tree so you can an­swer ques­tions on it.”

Hermione gave a shaky laugh.

“Ron, as we’re on the run with Har­ry Pot­ter, the most want­ed per­son in the coun­try, I don’t think it mat­ters. If I was go­ing back to school it would be dif­fer­ent. What’s Volde­mort plan­ning for Hog­warts?” she asked Lupin.

“At­ten­dance is now com­pul­so­ry for ev­ery young witch and wiz­ard,” he replied. “That was an­nounced yes­ter­day. It’s a change, be­cause it was nev­er oblig­atory be­fore. Of course, near­ly ev­ery witch and wiz­ard in Britain has been ed­ucat­ed at Hog­warts, but their par­ents had the right to teach them at home or send them abroad if they pre­ferred. This way, Volde­mort will have the whole Wiz­ard­ing pop­ula­tion un­der his eye from a young age. And it’s al­so an­oth­er way of weed­ing out Mug­gle-​borns, be­cause stu­dents must be giv­en Blood Sta­tus – mean­ing that they have proven to the Min­istry that they are of Wiz­ard de­scent – be­fore they are al­lowed to at­tend.”

Har­ry felt sick­ened and an­gry: At this mo­ment, ex­cit­ed eleven-​year-​olds would be por­ing over stacks of new­ly pur­chased spell-​books, un­aware that they would nev­er see Hog­warts, per­haps nev­er see their fam­ilies again ei­ther.

“It’s . . . it’s . . .” he mut­tered, strug­gling to find words that did jus­tice to the hor­ror of his thoughts, but Lupin said qui­et­ly,

“I know.”

Lupin hes­itat­ed.

I’ll un­der­stand if you can’t con­firm this, Har­ry, but the Or­der is un­der the im­pres­sion that Dum­ble­dore left you a mis­sion.”

“He did,” Har­ry replied, “and Ron and Hermione are in on it and they’re com­ing with me.”

“Can you con­fide in me what the mis­sion is?”

Har­ry looked in­to the pre­ma­ture­ly lined face, framed in thick but gray­ing hair, and wished that he could re­turn a dif­fer­ent an­swer.

“I can’t, Re­mus, I’m sor­ry. If Dum­ble­dore didn’t tell you I don’t think I can.”

“I thought you’d say that,” said Lupin, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed. “But I might still be of some use to you. You know what I am and what I can do. I could come with you to pro­vide pro­tec­tion. There would be no need to tell me ex­act­ly what you were up to.”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. It was a very tempt­ing of­fer, though how they would be able to keep their mis­sion se­cret from Lupin if he were with them all the time he could not imag­ine.

Hermione, how­ev­er, looked puz­zled.

“But what about Tonks?” she asked.

“What about her?” said Lupin.

“Well,” said Hermione, frown­ing, “you’re mar­ried! How does she feel about you go­ing away with us?”

“Tonks will be per­fect­ly safe,” said Lupin, “She’ll be at her par­ents’ house.”

There was some­thing strange in Lupin’s tone, it was al­most cold. There was al­so some­thing odd in the idea of Tonks re­main­ing hid­den at her par­ents’ house; she was, af­ter all, a mem­ber of the Or­der and, as far as Har­ry knew, was like­ly to want to be in the thick of the ac­tion.

“Re­mus,” said Hermione ten­ta­tive­ly, “is ev­ery­thing all right . . . you know . . . be­tween you and – ”

“Ev­ery­thing is fine, thank you,” said Lupin point­ed­ly.

Hermione turned pink. There was an­oth­er pause, an awk­ward and em­bar­rassed one, and then Lupin said, with an air of forc­ing him­self to ad­mit some­thing un­pleas­ant, “Tonks is go­ing to have a ba­by.”

“Oh, how won­der­ful!” squealed Hermione.

“Ex­cel­lent!” said Ron en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly.

“Con­grat­ula­tions,” said Har­ry.

Lupin gave an ar­ti­fi­cial smile that was more like a gri­mace, then said, “So . . . do you ac­cept my of­fer? Will three be­come four? I can­not be­lieve that Dum­ble­dore would have dis­ap­proved, he ap­point­ed me your De­fense Against the Dark Arts teach­er, af­ter all. And I must tell you that I be­lieve we are fac­ing mag­ic many of us have nev­er en­coun­tered or imag­ined.”

Ron and Hermione both looked at Har­ry.

“Just – just to be clear,” he said. “You want to leave Tonks at her par­ents’ house and come away with us?”

“She’ll be per­fect­ly safe there, they’ll look af­ter her,” said Lupin. He spoke with a fi­nal­ity bor­der­ing on in­dif­fer­ence: “Har­ry, I’m sure James would have want­ed me to stick with you.”

“Well,” said Har­ry slow­ly, “I’m not. I’m pret­ty sure my fa­ther would have want­ed to know why you aren’t stick­ing with your own kid, ac­tu­al­ly.”

Lupin’s face drained of col­or. The tem­per­ature in the kitchen might have dropped ten de­grees. Ron stared around the room as though he had been bid­den to mem­orize it, while Hermione’s eyes swiveled back­ward and for­ward from Har­ry to Lupin.

“You don’t un­der­stand,” said Lupin at last.

“Ex­plain, then,” said Har­ry.

Lupin swal­lowed.

“I – I made a grave mis­take in mar­ry­ing Tonks. I did it against my bet­ter judg­ment and have re­gret­ted it very much ev­ery since.”

“I see,” said Har­ry, “so you’re just go­ing to dump her and the kid and run off with us?”

Lupin sprang to his feet: His chair top­pled over back­ward, and he glared at them so fierce­ly that Har­ry saw, for the first time ev­er, she shad­ow of the wolf up­on his hu­man face.

“Don’t you un­der­stand what I’ve done to my wife and my un­born child? I should nev­er have mar­ried her, I’ve made her an out­cast!”

Lupin kicked aside the chair he had over­turned.

“You have on­ly ev­er seen me amongst the Or­der, or un­der Dum­ble­dore’s pro­tec­tion at Hog­warts! You don’t know how most of the Wiz­ard­ing world sees crea­tures like me! When they know of my af­flic­tion, they can bare­ly talk to me! Don’t you see what I’ve done?

Even her own fam­ily is dis­gust­ed by our mar­riage, what par­ents want their on­ly daugh­ter to mar­ry a were­wolf? And the child – the child – ”

Lupin ac­tu­al­ly seized hand­fuls of his own hair; he looked quite de­ranged.

“My kind don’t usu­al­ly breed! It will be like me, I am con­vinced of it – how can I for­give my­self, when I know­ing­ly risked pass­ing on my own con­di­tion to an in­no­cent child? And if, by some mir­acle, it is not like me, then it will be bet­ter off, a hun­dred times so, with­out a fa­ther of whom it must al­ways be ashamed!”

“Re­mus!” whis­pered Hermione, tears in her eyes. “Don’t say that – how could any child be ashamed of you?”

“Oh, I don’t know, Hermione,” said Har­ry. “I’d be pret­ty ashamed of him.”

Har­ry did not know where his rage was com­ing from, but it had pro­pelled him to his feet too. Lupin looked as though Har­ry had hit him.

“If the new regime thinks Mug­gle-​borns are bad,” Har­ry said, “what will they do to a half-​were­wolf whose fa­ther’s in the Or­der? My fa­ther died try­ing to pro­tect my moth­er and me, and you reck­on he’d tell you to aban­don your kid to go on an ad­ven­ture with us?”

“How – how dare you?” said Lupin. “This is not about a de­sire for – for dan­ger or per­son­al glo­ry – how dare you sug­gest such a – ”

“I think you’re feel­ing a bit of a dare­dev­il,” Har­ry said, “You fan­cy step­ping in­to Sir­ius’s shoes –”

“Har­ry, no!” Hermione begged him, but he con­tin­ued to glare in­to Lupin’s livid face.

“I’d nev­er have be­lieved this,” Har­ry said. “The man who taught me to fight de­men­tors – a cow­ard.”

Lupin drew his wand so fast that Har­ry had bare­ly reached for his own; there was a loud bang and he felt him­self fly­ing back­ward as if punched; as he slammed in­to the kitchen wall and slid to the floor, he glimpsed the tail of Lupin’s cloak dis­ap­pear­ing around the door.

“Re­mus, Re­mus, come back!” Hermione cried, but Lupin did not re­spond. A mo­ment lat­er they heard the front door slam.

“Har­ry!” wailed Hermione. “How could you?”

“It was easy,” said Har­ry. He stood up, he could feel a lump swelling where his head had hit the wall. He was still so full of anger he was shak­ing.

“Don’t look at me like that!” he snapped at Hermione.

“Don’t you start on her!” snarled Ron.

“No – no – we mustn’t fight!” said Hermione, launch­ing her­self be­tween them.

“You shouldn’t have said that stuff to Lupin,” Ron told Har­ry.

“He had it com­ing to him,” said Har­ry. Bro­ken im­ages were rac­ing each oth­er through his mind: Sir­ius falling through the veil; Dum­ble­dore sus­pend­ed, bro­ken, in midair; a flash of green light and his moth­er’s voice, beg­ging for mer­cy . . .

“Par­ents,” said Har­ry, “shouldn’t leave their kids un­less – un­less they’ve got to.”

“Har­ry –“ said Hermione, stretch­ing out a con­sol­ing hand, but he shrugged it off and walked away, his eyes on the fire Hermione had con­jured. He had once spo­ken to Lupin out of that fire­place, seek­ing re­as­sur­ance about James, and Lupin had con­soled him. Now Lupin’s tor­tured white face seemed to swim in the air be­fore him. He felt a sick­en­ing surge of re­morse. Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione spoke, but Har­ry felt sure that they were look­ing at each oth­er be­hind his back, com­mu­ni­cat­ing silent­ly.

He turned around and caught them turn­ing hur­ried­ly away form each oth­er.

“I know I shouldn’t have called him a cow­ard.”

“No, you shouldn’t,” said Ron at once.

“But he’s act­ing like one.”

“All the same . . .” said Hermione.

“I know,” said Har­ry. “But if it makes him go back to Tonks, it’ll be worth it, won’t it?”

He could not keep the plea out of his voice. Hermione looked sym­pa­thet­ic, Ron un­cer­tain. Har­ry looked down at his feet, think­ing of his fa­ther. Would James have backed Har­ry in what he had said to Lupin, or would he have been an­gry at how his son had treat­ed his old friend?

The silent kitchen seemed to hum with the shock of the re­cent scene and with Ron and Hermione’s un­spo­ken re­proach­es. The Dai­ly Prophet Lupin had brought was still ly­ing on the ta­ble, Har­ry’s own face star­ing up at the ceil­ing from the front page. He walked over to it and sat down, opened the pa­per at ran­dom, and pre­tend­ed to read. He could not take in the words; his mind was still too full of the en­counter with Lupin. He was sure that Ron and Hermione had re­sumed their silent com­mu­ni­ca­tions on the oth­er side of the Prophet. He turned a page loud­ly, and Dum­ble­dore’s name leapt out at him. It was a mo­ment or two be­fore he took in the mean­ing of the pho­to­graph, which showed a fam­ily group. Be­neath the pho­to­graph were the words: The Dum­ble­dore fam­ily, left to right: Al­bus; Per­ci­val, hold­ing new­born Ar­iana; Kendra, and Aber­forth.

His at­ten­tion caught, Har­ry ex­am­ined the pic­ture more care­ful­ly. Dum­ble­dore’s fa­ther, Per­ci­val, was a good-​look­ing man with eyes that seemed to twin­kle even in this fad­ed old pho­to­graph. The ba­by, Ar­iana, was a lit­tle longer than a loaf of bread and no more dis­tinc­tive-​look­ing. The moth­er, Kendra, had jet black hair pulled in­to a high bun. Her face had a carved qual­ity about it. Har­ry thought of pho­tos of Na­tive Amer­icans he’d seen as he stud­ied her dark eyes, high cheek­bones, and straight nose, for­mal­ly com­posed above a high-​necked silk gown. Al­bus and Aber­forth wore match­ing lacy col­lared jack­ets and had iden­ti­cal, shoul­der-​length hairstyles. Al­bus looked sev­er­al years old­er, but oth­er­wise the two boys looked very alike, for this was be­fore Al­bus’s nose had been bro­ken and be­fore he start­ed wear­ing glass­es.

The fam­ily looked quite hap­py and nor­mal, smil­ing serene­ly up out of the news­pa­per. Ba­by Ar­iana’s arm waved vague­ly out of her shawl. Har­ry looked above the pic­ture and saw the head­line:



EX­CLU­SIVE EX­TRACT FROM UP­COM­ING

BI­OG­RA­PHY OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE

by Ri­ta Skeeter



Think­ing it could hard­ly make him feel any worse than he al­ready did, Har­ry be­gan to read:



Proud and haughty, Kendra Dum­ble­dore could not bear to re­main in Mould-​on-​the-​Wold af­ter her hus­band Per­ci­val’s well-​pub­li­cized ar­rest and im­pris­on­ment in Azk­aban. She there­fore de­cid­ed to up­root the fam­ily and re­lo­cate to Go­dric’s Hol­low, the vil­lage that was lat­er to gain fame as the scene of Har­ry Pot­ter’s strange es­cape from You-​Know-​Who.

Like Mould-​on-​the-​Wold, Go­dric’s Hol­low was home to a num­ber of Wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies, but as Kendra knew none of them, she would be spared the cu­rios­ity about her hus­band’s crime she had faced in her for­mer vil­lage. By re­peat­ed­ly re­buff­ing the friend­ly ad­vances of her new Wiz­ard­ing neigh­bors, she soon en­sured that her fam­ily was left well alone.

“Slammed the door in my face when I went around to wel­come her with a batch of home­made Caul­dron Cakes,” says Bathil­da Bagshot. “The first year they were there I on­ly ev­er saw the two boys. Wouldn’t have known there was a daugh­ter if I hadn’t been pick­ing Plan­gen­tines by moon­light the win­ter af­ter they moved in, and saw Kendra lead­ing Ar­iana out in­to the back gar­den. Walked her round the lawn once, keep­ing a firm grip on her, then took her back in­side. Didn’t know what to make of it.”

It seems that Kendra thought the move to Go­dric’s Hol­low was the per­fect op­por­tu­ni­ty to hide Ar­iana once and for all, some­thing she had prob­ably been plan­ning for years. The tim­ing was sig­nif­icant. Ar­iana was bare­ly sev­en years old when she van­ished from sight, and sev­en is the age by which most ex­perts agree that mag­ic will have re­vealed it­self, if present. No­body now alive re­mem­bers Ar­iana ev­er demon­strat­ing even the slight­est sign of mag­ical abil­ity. It seems clear, there­fore, that Kendra made a de­ci­sion to hide her daugh­ter’s ex­is­tence rather than suf­fer the shame of ad­mit­ting that she had pro­duced a Squib. Mov­ing away from the friends and neigh­bors who knew Ar­iana would, of course, make im­pris­on­ing her all the eas­ier. The tiny num­ber of peo­ple who hence­forth knew of Ar­iana’s ex­is­tence could be count­ed up­on to keep the se­cret, in­clud­ing her two broth­ers, who had de­flect­ed awk­ward ques­tions with the an­swer their moth­er had taught them. “My sis­ter is too frail for school.”

Next week: Al­bus Dum­ble­dore at Hog­warts – the Prizes and the Pre­tense.



Har­ry had been wrong: What he had read had in­deed made him feel worse. He looked back at the pho­to­graph of the ap­par­ent­ly hap­py fam­ily. Was it true? How could he find out? He want­ed to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low, even if Bathil­da was in no fit state to talk to him: he want­ed to vis­it the place where he and Dum­ble­dore had both lost loved ones. He was in the pro­cess of low­er­ing the news­pa­per, to ask Ron’s and Hermione’s opin­ions, when a deaf­en­ing crack echoed around the kitchen.

For the first time in three days Har­ry had for­got­ten all about Kreach­er. His im­me­di­ate thought was that Lupin had burst back in­to the room, and for a split sec­ond, he did not take in the mass of strug­gling limbs that had ap­peared out of thin air right be­side his chair. He hur­ried to his feet as Kreach­er dis­en­tan­gled him­self and, bow­ing low to Har­ry, croaked, “Kreach­er has re­turned with the thief Mundun­gus Fletch­er, Mas­ter.”

Mundun­gus scram­bled up and pulled out his wand; Hermione, how­ev­er, was too quick for him.

“Ex­pel­liar­mus!”

Mundun­gus’s wand soared in­to the air, and Hermione caught it. Wild-​eyed, Mundun­gus dived for the stairs. Ron rug­by-​tack­led him and Mundun­gus hit the stone floor with a muf­fled crunch.

“What?” he bel­lowed, writhing in his at­tempts to free him­self from Ron’s grip. “Wha’ve I done? Set­ting a bleed­in’ ‘house-​elf on me, what are you play­ing at, wha’ve I done, lemme go, lemme go, of – ”

“You’re not in much of a po­si­tion to make threats,” said Har­ry. He threw aside the news­pa­per, crossed the kitchen in a few strides, and dropped to his knees be­side Mundun­gus, who stopped strug­gling and looked ter­ri­fied. Ron got up, pant­ing, and watched as Har­ry point­ed his wand de­lib­er­ate­ly at Mundun­gus’s nose. Mundun­gus stank of stale sweat and to­bac­co smoke. His hair was mat­ted and his robes stained.

“Kreach­er apol­ogizes for the de­lay in bring­ing the thief, Mas­ter,” croaked the elf. “Fletch­er knows how to avoid cap­ture, has many hidey-​holes and ac­com­plices. Nev­er­the­less, Kreach­er cor­nered the thief in the end.”

“You’ve done re­al­ly well, Kreach­er,” said Har­ry, and the elf bowed low.

“Right, we’ve got a few ques­tions for you,” Har­ry told Mundun­gus, who shout­ed at once.

“I pan­icked, okay? I nev­er want­ed to come along, no of­fense, mate, but I nev­er vol­un­teered to die for you, an’ that was bleed­in’ You-​Know-​Who come fly­ing at me, any­one woul­da got out­ta there. I said all along I didn’t wan­na do it –”

“For your in­for­ma­tion, none of the rest of us Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed,” said Hermione.

“Well, you’re a bunch of bleed­in’ ‘eroes then, aren’t you, but I nev­er pre­tend­ed I was up for killing me­self –”

“We’re not in­ter­est­ed in why you ran out on Mad-​Eye,” said Har­ry, mov­ing his wand a lit­tle clos­er to Mundun­gus’s bag­gy, blood­shot eyes. “We al­ready knew you were an un­re­li­able bit of scum.”

“Well then, why the ‘ell am I be­ing ‘unt­ed down by ‘ouse-​elves? Or is this about them gob­lets again? I ain’t got none of ‘em left, or you could ‘ave ‘em –”

“It’s not about the gob­lets ei­ther, al­though you’re get­ting warmer,” said Har­ry. “Shut up and lis­ten.”

It felt won­der­ful to have some­thing to do, some­one of whom he could de­mand some small por­tion of truth. Har­ry’s wand was now so close to the bridge of Mundun­gus’s nose that Mundun­gus had gone cross-​eyed try­ing to keep it in view.

“When you cleaned out this house of any­thing valu­able,” Har­ry be­gan, but Mundun­gus in­ter­rupt­ed him again.

“Sir­ius nev­er cared about any of the junk –”

There was the sound of pat­ter­ing fee, a blaze of shin­ing cop­per, an echo­ing clang, and a shriek of agony; Kreach­er had tak­en a run at Mundun­gus and hit him over the head with a saucepan.

“Call ‘im off, call ‘im off, ‘e should be locked up!” screamed Mundun­gus, cow­er­ing as Kreach­er raised the heavy-​bot­tomed pan again.

“Kreach­er, no!” shout­ed Har­ry.

Kreach­er’s thin arms trem­bled with the weight of the pan, still held aloft.

“Per­haps just one more, Mas­ter Har­ry, for luck?”

Ron laughed.

“We need him con­scious, Kreach­er, but if he needs per­suad­ing, you can do the hon­ors,” said Har­ry.

“Thank you very much, Mas­ter,” said Kreach­er with a bow, and he re­treat­ed a short dis­tance, his great pale eyes still fixed up­on Mundun­gus with loathing.

“When you stripped this house of all the valu­ables you could find,” Har­ry be­gan again, “you took a bunch of stuff from the kitchen cup­board. There was a lock­et there.” Har­ry’s mouth was sud­den­ly dry: He could sense Ron and Hermione’s ten­sion and ex­cite­ment too. “What did you do with it?”

“Why?” asked Mundun­gus. “Is it valu­able?”

“You’ve still got it!” cried Hermione.

“No, he hasn’t,” said Ron shrewd­ly. “He’s won­der­ing whether he should have asked more mon­ey for it.”

“More?” said Mundun­gus. “That wouldn’t have been eff­ing dif­fi­cult . . .bleed­in’ gave it away, di’n’ I? No choice.”

“What do you mean?”

“I was sell­ing in Di­agon Al­ley and she come up to me and asks if I’ve got a li­cense for trad­ing in mag­ical ar­ti­facts. Bleed­in’ snoop. She was gonna fine me, but she took a fan­cy to the lock­et an’ told me she’d take it and let me off that time, and to fink me­self lucky.”

“Who was this wom­an?” asked Har­ry.

“I dun­no, some Min­istry hag.”

Mundun­gus con­sid­ered for a mo­ment, brow wrin­kled.

“Lit­tle wom­an. Bow on top of ‘er head.”

He frowned and then added, “Looked like a toad.”

Har­ry dropped his wand: It hit Mundun­gus on the nose and shot red sparks in­to his eye­brows, which ig­nit­ed.

“Aqua­men­ti!” screamed Hermione, and a jet of wa­ter streamed from her wand, en­gulf­ing a splut­ter­ing and chok­ing Mundun­gus.

Har­ry looked up and saw his own shock re­flect­ed in Ron’s and Hermione’s faces. The scars on the back of his right hand seemed to be tin­gling again.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWELVE


MAG­IC IS MIGHT



As Au­gust wore on, the square of un­kempt grass in the mid­dle of Grim­mauld Place shriv­eled in the sun un­til it was brit­tle and brown. The in­hab­itants of num­ber twelve were nev­er seen by any­one in the sur­round­ing hous­es, and nor was num­ber twelve it­self. The mug­gles who lived in Grim­mauld Place had long since ac­cept­ed the amus­ing mis­take in the num­ber­ing that had caused num­ber eleven to sit be­side num­ber thir­teen.

And yet the square was now at­tract­ing a trick­le of vis­itors who seemed to find the anoma­ly most in­trigu­ing. Bare­ly a day passed with­out one or two peo­ple ar­riv­ing in Grim­mauld Place with no oth­er pur­pose, or so it seemed, than to lean against the rail­ings fac­ing num­bers eleven and thir­teen, watch­ing the join be­tween the two hous­es. The lurk­ers were nev­er the same two days run­ning, al­though they all seemed to share a dis­like for nor­mal cloth­ing. Most of the Lon­don­ers who passed them were used to ec­cen­tric dressers and took lit­tle no­tice, though oc­ca­sion­al­ly one of them might glance back, won­der­ing why any­one would wear cloaks in this heat.

The watch­ers seemed to be glean­ing lit­tle sat­is­fac­tion from their vig­il. Oc­ca­sion­al­ly one of them start­ed for­ward ex­cit­ed­ly, as if they had seen some­thing in­ter­est­ing at last, on­ly to fall back look­ing dis­ap­point­ed.

On the first day of Septem­ber there were more peo­ple lurk­ing in the square than ev­er be­fore. Half a dozen men in long cloaks stood silent and watch­ful, gaz­ing as ev­er at hous­es eleven and thir­teen, but the thing for which they were wait­ing still ap­peared elu­sive. As evening drew in, bring­ing with it an un­ex­pect­ed gust of chilly rain for the first time in weeks, there oc­curred one of those in­ex­pli­ca­ble mo­ments when they ap­peared to have seen some­thing in­ter­est­ing. The man with the twist­ed face point­ed and his clos­est com­pan­ion, a podgy, pal­lid man, start­ed for­ward, but a mo­ment lat­er they had re­laxed in­to their pre­vi­ous state of in­ac­tiv­ity, look­ing frus­trat­ed and dis­ap­point­ed.

Mean­while, in­side num­ber twelve, Har­ry had just en­tered the hall. He had near­ly lost his bal­ance as he Ap­pa­rat­ed on­to the top step just out­side the front door, and thought that the Death Eaters might have caught a glimpse of his mo­men­tar­ily ex­posed el­bow. Shut­ting the front door care­ful­ly be­hind him, he pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, draped it over his arm, and hur­ried along the gloomy hall­way to­ward the door that led to the base­ment, a stolen copy of the Dai­ly Prophet clutched in his hand.

The usu­al low whis­per of “Severus Snape” greet­ed him, the chill wind swept him, and his tongue rolled up for a mo­ment.

“I didn’t kill you,” he said, once it had un­rolled, then held his breath as the dusty jinx-​fig­ure ex­plod­ed. He wait­ed un­til he was halfway down the stairs to the kitchen, out of earshot of Mrs. Black and clear of the dust cloud, be­fore call­ing, “I’ve got news, and you won’t like it.”

The kitchen was al­most un­rec­og­niz­able. Ev­ery sur­face now shone; Cop­per pots and pans had been bur­nished to a rosy glow; the wood­en table­top gleamed; the gob­lets and plates al­ready laid for din­ner glint­ed in the light from a mer­ri­ly blaz­ing fire, on which a caul­dron was sim­mer­ing. Noth­ing in the room, how­ev­er, was more dra­mat­ical­ly dif­fer­ent than the house-​elf who now came hur­ry­ing to­ward Har­ry, dressed in a snowy-​white tow­el, his ear hair as clean and fluffy as cot­ton wool, Reg­ulus’s lock­et bounc­ing on his thin chest.

“Shoes off, if you please, Mas­ter Har­ry, and hands washed be­fore din­ner,” croaked Kreach­er, seiz­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and slouch­ing off to hang it on a hook on the wall, be­side a num­ber of old-​fash­ioned robes that had been fresh­ly laun­dered.

“What’s hap­pened?” Ron asked ap­pre­hen­sive­ly. He are Hermione had been pour­ing over a sheaf of scrib­bled notes and hand drawn maps that lit­tered the end of the long kitchen ta­ble, but now they watched Har­ry as he strode to­ward them and threw down the news­pa­per on top of their scat­tered parch­ment.

A large pic­ture of a fa­mil­iar, hook-​nosed, black-​haired man stared up at them all, be­neath a head­line that read:



SEVERUS SNAPE CON­FIRMED AS HOG­WARTS HEAD­MAS­TER



“No!” said Ron and Hermione loud­ly.

Hermione was quick­est; she snatched up the news­pa­per and be­gan to read the ac­com­pa­ny­ing sto­ry out loud.

“Severus Snape, long-​stand­ing Po­tions mas­ter at Hog­warts School of Witchcraft and wiz­ardry, was to­day ap­point­ed head­mas­ter in the most im­por­tant of sev­er­al staffing changes at the an­cient school. Fol­low­ing the res­ig­na­tion of the pre­vi­ous Mug­gle Stud­ies teach­er, Alec­to Car­row will take over the post while her broth­er, Amy­cus, fills the po­si­tion of De­fense Against the Dark Arts pro­fes­sor.”

“ ‘I wel­come the op­por­tu­ni­ty to up­hold our finest Wiz­ard­ing tra­di­tions and val­ues –‘ Like com­mit­ting mur­der and cut­ting off peo­ple’s ears, I sup­pose! Snape, head­mas­ter! Snape in Dum­ble­dore’s study – Mer­lin’s pants!” she shrieked, mak­ing both Har­ry and Ron jump. She leapt up from the ta­ble and hur­tled from the room, shout­ing as she went, “I’ll be back in a minute!”

“’Mer­lin’s pants’?” re­peat­ed Ron, look­ing amused. “She must be up­set.” He pulled the news­pa­per to­ward him and pe­rused the ar­ti­cle about Snape.

“The oth­er teach­ers won’t stand for this, McG­ona­gall and Flitwick and Sprout all know the truth, they know how Dum­ble­dore died. They won’t ac­cept Snape as head­mas­ter. And who are these Car­rows?”

“Death Eaters,” said Har­ry. “There are pic­tures of them in­side. They were at the top of the tow­er when Snape killed Dum­ble­dore, so it’s all friends to­geth­er. And,” Har­ry went on bit­ter­ly, draw­ing up a chair, “I can’t see that the oth­er teach­ers have got any choice but to stay. If the Min­istry and Volde­mort are be­hind Snape it’ll be a choice be­tween stay­ing and teach­ing, or a nice few years in Azk­aban – and that’s if they’re lucky. I reck­on they’ll stay to try and pro­tect the stu­dents.”

Kreach­er came bustling to the ta­ble with a large curcen in his hands, and la­dled out soup in­to pris­tine bowls, whistling be­tween his teeth as he did so.

“Thanks, Kreach­er,” said Har­ry, flip­ping over the Prophet so as not to have to look at Snape’s face. “Well, at least we know ex­act­ly where Snape is now.”

He be­gan to spoon soup in­to his mouth. The qual­ity of Kreach­er’s cook­ing had im­proved dra­mat­ical­ly ev­er since he had been giv­en Reg­ulus’s lock­et: To­day’s French onion was as good as Har­ry had ev­er tast­ed.

“There are still a load of Death Eaters watch­ing this house,” he told Ron as he ate, “more than usu­al. It’s like they’re hop­ing we’ll march out car­ry­ing our school trunks and head off for the Hog­warts Ex­press.”

Ron glanced at his watch.

“I’ve been think­ing about that all day. It left near­ly six hours ago. Weird, not be­ing on it, isn’t it?”

In his mind’s eye Har­ry seemed to see the scar­let steam en­gine as he and Ron had once fol­lowed it by air, shim­mer­ing be­tween fields and hills, a rip­pling scar­let cater­pil­lar. He was sure Gin­ny, Neville, and Lu­na were sit­ting to­geth­er at this mo­ment, per­haps won­der­ing where he, Ron, and Hermione were, or de­bat­ing how best to un­der­mine Snape’s new regime.

“They near­ly saw me com­ing back in just now,” Har­ry said, “I land­ed bad­ly on the top step, and the Cloak slipped.”

“I do that ev­ery time. Oh, here she is,” Ron added, cran­ing around in his seat to watch Hermione reen­ter­ing the kitchen. “And what in the name of Mer­lin’s most bag­gy Y Fronts was that about?”

“I re­mem­bered this,” Hermione pant­ed.

She was car­ry­ing a large, framed pic­ture, which she now low­ered to the floor be­fore seiz­ing her small, bead­ed bag from the kitchen side­board. Open­ing it, she pro­ceed­ed to force the paint­ing in­side and de­spite the fact that it was patent­ly too large to fit in­side the tiny bag, with­in a few sec­onds it had van­ished, like so much ease, in­to the bag’s ca­pa­cious depths.

“Phineas Nigel­lus,” Hermione ex­plained as she threw the bag on­to the kitchen ta­ble with the usu­al sonorous, clank­ing crash.

“Sor­ry?” said Ron, but Har­ry un­der­stood. The paint­ed im­age of Phineas Nigel­lus Black was able to trav­el be­tween his por­trait in Grim­mauld Place and the one that hung in the head­mas­ter’s of­fice at Hog­warts: the cir­cu­lar cow­er-​top room where Snape was no doubt sit­ting right now, in tri­umphant pos­ses­sion of Dum­ble­dore’s col­lec­tion of del­icate, sil­ver mag­ical in­stru­ments, the stone Pen­sieve, the Sort­ing Hat and, un­less it ad been moved else­where, the sword of Gryffind­or.

“Snape could send Phineas Nigel­lus to look in­side this house for him,” Hermione ex­plained to Ron as she re­sumed her seat. “But let him try it now, all Phineas Nigel­lus will be able to see is the in­side of my hand­bag.”

“Good think­ing!” said Ron, look­ing im­pressed.

“Thank you,” smiled Hermione, pulling her soup to­ward her. “So, Har­ry, what else hap­pened to­day?”

“Noth­ing,” said Har­ry. “Watched the Min­istry en­trance for sev­en hours. No sign of her. Saw your dad though, Ron. He looks fine.”

Ron nod­ded his ap­pre­ci­ation of this news. The had agreed that it was far too dan­ger­ous to try and com­mu­ni­cate with Mr. Weasley while he walked in and out of the Min­istry, be­cause he was al­ways sur­round­ed by oth­er Min­istry work­ers. It was, how­ev­er, re­as­sur­ing to catch these glimpses of him, even if he did look very strained and anx­ious.

“Dad al­ways told us most Min­istry peo­ple use the Floo Net­work to get to work,” Ron said. “That’s why we haven’t seen Um­bridge, she’d nev­er walk, she’d think she’s too im­por­tant.”

“And what about that fun­ny old witch and that lit­tle wiz­ard in the navy robes?” Hermione asked.

“Oh yeah, the bloke from Mag­ical Main­te­nance,” said Ron.

“How do you know he works for Mag­ical Main­te­nance?” Hermione asked, her soup­spoon sus­pend­ed in midair.

“Dad said ev­ery­one from Mag­ical Main­te­nance wears navy blue robes.”

“But you nev­er told us that!”

Hermione dropped her spoon and pulled to­ward her the sheaf of notes and maps that she and Ron had been ex­am­in­ing when Har­ry had en­tered the kitchen.

“There’s noth­ing in here about navy blue robes, noth­ing!” she said, flip­ping fever­ish­ly through the pages.

“Well, dies it re­al­ly mat­ter?”

“Ron, it all mat­ters! If we’re go­ing to get in­to the Min­istry and not give our­selves away when they’re bound to be on the look­out for in­trud­ers, ev­ery lit­tle de­tail mat­ters! We’ve been over and over this, I mean, what’s the point of all these re­con­nais­sance trips if you aren’t even both­er­ing to tell us –“

“Blimey, Hermione, I for­get one lit­tle thing – “

“You do re­al­ize, don’t you, that there’s prob­ably no more dan­ger­ous place in the whole world for us to be right now than the Min­istry of –“

“I think we should do it to­mor­row,” said Har­ry.

Hermione stopped dead, her jaw hang­ing; Ron choked a lit­tle over his soup.

“To­mor­row?” re­peat­ed Hermione. “You aren’t se­ri­ous, Har­ry?”

“I am,” said Har­ry. “I don’t think we’re go­ing to be much bet­ter pre­pared than we are now even if we skulk around the Min­istry en­trance for an­oth­er month. The longer we put it off, the far­ther away that lock­et could be. There’s al­ready a good chance Um­bridge has chucked it away; the thing doesn’t open.”

“Un­less,” said Ron, “she’s found a way of open­ing it and she’s now pos­sessed.”

“Wouldn’t make any dif­fer­ence to her, she was so evil in the first place,” Har­ry shrugged.

Hermione was bit­ing her lip, deep in thought.

“We know ev­ery­thing im­por­tant,” Har­ry went on, ad­dress­ing Hermione. “We know they’ve stopped Ap­pari­tion in and out of the Min­istry; We know on­ly the most se­nior Min­istry mem­bers are al­lowed to con­nect their homes to the Floo Net­work now, be­cause Ron heard those two Un­speak­ables com­plain­ing about it. And we know rough­ly where Um­bridge’s of­fice is, be­cause of what you heard the beard­ed bloke say­ing to his mate –“

“’I’ll be up on lev­el one, Do­lores wants to see me,’” Hermione re­cit­ed im­me­di­ate­ly.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry. “And we know you get in us­ing those fun­ny coins, or to­kens, or what­ev­er they are, be­cause I saw that witch bor­row­ing one from her friend – “

“But we haven’t got any!”

“If the plan works, we will have,” Har­ry con­tin­ued calm­ly.

“I don’t know, Har­ry, I don’t know … There are an aw­ful lot of things that could go wrong, so much re­lies on chance … “

That’ll be true even if we spend an­oth­er three months prepar­ing,” said Har­ry. “It’s time to act.”

He could tell from Ron’s and Hermione’s faces that they were scared; he was not par­tic­ular­ly con­fi­dent him­self, and yet he was sure the time had come to put their plan in­to op­er­ation.

They had spent the pre­vi­ous four weeks tak­ing it in turns to don the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and spy on the of­fi­cial en­trance to the Min­istry, which Ron, thanks to Mr. Weasley, had known since child­hood. They had tailed Min­istry work­ers on their way in, eaves­dropped on their con­ver­sa­tions, and learned by care­ful ob­ser­va­tion which of them could be re­lied up­on to ap­pear, alone, at the same time ev­ery day. Oc­ca­sion­al­ly there had been a chance to sneak a Dai­ly Prophet out of some­body’s brief­case. Slow­ly they had built up the sketchy maps and notes now stacked in front of Hermione.

“All right,” said Ron slow­ly, “let’s say we go for it to­mor­row … I think it should just be me and Har­ry.”

“Oh, don’t start that again!” sighed Hermione. “I thought we’d set­tled this.”

“It’s one thing hang­ing around the en­trances un­der the Cloak, but this is dif­fer­ent. Hermione,” Ron jabbed a fin­ger at a copy of the Dai­ly Prophet dat­ed ten days pre­vi­ous­ly. “You’re on the list of Mug­gle-​borns who didn’t present them­selves for in­ter­ro­ga­tion!”

“And you’re sup­posed to be dy­ing of spat­ter­groit at the Bur­row! If any­one shouldn’t go, it’s Har­ry, he’s got a ten-​thou­sand-​Galleon price on his head – “

“Fine, I’ll stay here,” said Har­ry. “Let me know if you ev­er de­feat Volde­mort, won’t you?”

As Ron and Hermione laughed, pain shot through the scar on Har­ry’s fore­head. His hand jumped to it. He saw Hermione’s eyes nar­row, and he tried to pass off the move­ment by brush­ing his hair out of his eyes.

“Well, if all three of us go we’ll have to Dis­ap­pa­rate sep­arate­ly,” Ron was say­ing. “We can’t all fit un­der the Cloak any­more.”

Har­ry’s scar was be­com­ing more and more painful. He stood up. At once, Kreach­er hur­ried for­ward.

“Mas­ter has not fin­ished his soup, would mas­ter pre­fer the sa­vory stew, or else the trea­cle tart to which Mas­ter is so par­tial?”

“Thanks, Kreach­er, but I’ll be back in a minute – er – bath­room.”

Aware that Hermione was watch­ing him sus­pi­cious­ly, Har­ry hur­ried up the stairs to the hall and then to the first land­ing, where he dashed in­to the bath­room and bolt­ed the door again. Grunt­ing with pain, he slumped over the black basin with its taps in the form of open-​mouthed ser­pents and closed his eyes ….

He was glid­ing along a twilit street. The build­ings on ei­ther side of him had high, tim­bered gables; they looked like gin­ger­bread hous­es. He ap­proached one of them, then saw the white­ness of his own long-​fin­gered hand against the door. He knocked. He felt a mount­ing ex­cite­ment …

The door opened: A laugh­ing wom­an stood there. Her face fell as she looked in­to Har­ry’s face: hu­mor gone, ter­ror re­plac­ing it ….

“Gre­gorovitch?” said a high, cold voice.

She shook her head: She was try­ing to close the door. A white hand held it steady, pre­vent­ed her shut­ting him out …

“I want Gre­gorovitch.”

“Er wohnt hi­er nicht mehr!” she cried, shak­ing her head. “He no live here! He no live here! I know him not!”

Aban­don­ing the at­tempt to close the door, she be­gan to back away down the dark hall, and Har­ry fol­lowed, glid­ing to­ward her, and his long-​fin­gered hand had drawn his wand.

“where is he?”

“Das weiff ich nicht! He move! I know not, I know not!”

He raised his hand. She screamed. Two young chil­dren came run­ning in­to the hall. She tried to shield them with her arms. There was a flash of green light –

“Har­ry! HAR­RY!”

He opened his eyes; he had sunk to the floor. Hermione was pound­ing on the door again.

“Har­ry, open up!”

He had shout­ed out, he knew it. He got up and un­bolt­ed the door; Hermione top­pled in­side at once, re­gained her bal­ance, and looked around sus­pi­cious­ly. Ron was right be­hind her, look­ing un­nerved as he point­ed his wand in­to the cor­ners of the chilly bath­room.

“What were you do­ing?” asked Hermione stern­ly.

“What d’you think I was do­ing?” asked Har­ry with fee­ble brava­do.

“You were yelling your head off!” said Ron.

“Oh yeah … I must’ve dozed off or – “

“Har­ry, please don’t in­sult our in­tel­li­gence,” said Hermione, tak­ing deep breaths. “We know your scar hurt down­stairs, and you’re white as a sheet.”

Har­ry sat down on the edge of the bath.

“Fine. I’ve just seen Volde­mort mur­der­ing a wom­an. By now he’s prob­ably killed her whole fam­ily. And he didn’t need to. It was Cedric all over again, they were just there … “

“Har­ry, you aren’t sup­posed to let this hap­pen any­more!” Hermione cried, her voice echo­ing through the bath­room. “Dum­ble­dore want­ed you to use Oc­clu­men­cy! HE thought the con­nec­tion was dan­ger­ous – Volde­mort can use it, Har­ry! What good is it to watch him kill and tor­ture, how can it help?”

“Be­cause it means I know what he’s do­ing,” said Har­ry.

“So you’re not even go­ing to try to shut him out?”

“Hermione, I can’t. You know I’m lousy at Oc­clu­men­cy. I nev­er got the hang of it.”

“You nev­er re­al­ly tried!” she said hot­ly. “I don’t get it, Har­ry – do you like hav­ing this spe­cial con­nec­tion or re­la­tion­ship or what – what­ev­er – “

She fal­tered un­der the look he gave her as he stood up.

“Like it?” he said qui­et­ly. “Would you like it?”

“I – no – I’m sor­ry, Har­ry. I just didn’t mean – “

“I hate it, I hate the fact that he can get in­side me, that I have to watch him when he’s most dan­ger­ous. But I’m go­ing to use it.”

“Dum­ble­dore –“

“For­get Dum­ble­dore. This is my choice, no­body else’s. I want to know why he’s af­ter Gre­gorovitch.”

“Who?”

“He’s a for­eign wand­mak­er,” said Har­ry. “He made Krum’s wand and Krum reck­ons he’s bril­liant.”

“But ac­cord­ing to you,” said Ron, “Volde­mort’s got Ol­li­van­der locked up some­where. If he’s al­ready got a wand­mak­er, what does he need an­oth­er one for?”

“Maybe he agrees with Krum, maybe he thinks Gre­gorovitch is bet­ter … or else he thinks Gre­gorovitch will be able to ex­plain what my wand did when he was chas­ing me, be­cause Ol­li­van­der didn’t know.”

Har­ry glanced in­to the cracked, dusty mir­ror and saw Ron and Hermione ex­chang­ing skep­ti­cal looks be­hind his back.

“Har­ry, you keep talk­ing about what your wand did,” said Hermione, “but you made it hap­pen! Why are you so de­ter­mined not to take re­spon­si­bil­ity for your own pow­er?”

“Be­cause I know it wasn’t me! And so does Volde­mort, Hermione! We both know what re­al­ly hap­pened!”

They glared at each oth­er; Har­ry knew that he had not con­vinced Hermione and that she was mar­shal­ing coun­ter­ar­gu­ments, against both his the­ory on his wand and the fact that he was per­mit­ting him­self to see in­to Volde­mort’s mind. To his re­lief, Ron in­ter­vened.

“Drop it,” he ad­vised her. “It’s up to him. And if we’re go­ing to the Min­istry to­mor­row, don’t you reck­on we should go over the plan?”

Re­luc­tant­ly, as the oth­er two could tell, Hermione let the mat­ter rest, though Har­ry was quite sure she would at­tack again at the first op­por­tu­ni­ty. In the mean­time, they re­turned to the base­ment kitchen, where Kreach­er served them all stew and trea­cle tart.

They did not get to bed un­til late that night, af­ter spend­ing hours go­ing over and over their plan un­til they could re­cite it, word per­fect, to each oth­er. Har­ry, who was now sleep­ing in Sir­ius’s room, lay in bed with his wan­dlight trained on the old pho­to­graph of his fa­ther, Sir­ius, Lupin, and Pet­ti­grew, and mut­tered the plan to him­self for an­oth­er ten min­utes. As he ex­tin­guished his wand, how­ev­er, he was think­ing not of Polyjuice Po­tion, Puk­ing Pastilles, or the navy blue robes of Mag­ical Main­te­nance; he though of Gre­gorovitch the wand­mak­er, and how long he could hope to re­main hid­den while Volde­mort sought him so de­ter­mined­ly.

Dawn seemed to fol­low mid­night with in­de­cent haste.

“You look ter­ri­ble,” was Ron’s greet­ing as he en­tered the room to wake Har­ry.

“Not for long,” said Har­ry, yawn­ing.

They found Hermione down­stairs in the kitchen. She was be­ing served cof­fee and hot rolls by Kreach­er and wear­ing the slight­ly man­ic ex­pres­sion that Har­ry as­so­ci­at­ed with ex­am re­view.

“Robes,” she said un­der her breath, ac­knowl­edg­ing their pres­ence with a ner­vous nod and con­tin­uing to poke around in her bead­ed bag, “Polyjuice Po­tion … In­vis­ibili­ity Cloak … De­coy Det­ona­tors … You should each take a cou­ple just in case … Puk­ing Pastilles, Nose­bleed Nor­gat, Ex­tend­able Ears …”

They gulped down their break­fast, then set off up­stairs, Kreach­er bow­ing them out and promis­ing to have a steak-​and-​kid­ney pie ready for them when they re­turned.

“Bless him,” said Ron fond­ly, “and when you think I used to fan­ta­size about cut­ting off his head and stick­ing it on the wall.”

They made their way on­to the front step with im­mense cau­tion. They could see a cou­ple of puffy-​eyed Death Eaters watch­ing the house from across the misty square.

Hermione Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed with Ron first, then came back for Har­ry.

Af­ter the usu­al brief spell of dark­ness and near suf­fo­ca­tion, Har­ry found him­self in the tiny al­ley­way where the first phase of their plan was sched­uled to take place. It was as yet de­sert­ed, ex­cept for a cou­ple of large bins; the first Min­istry work­ers did not usu­al­ly ap­pear here un­til at least eight o’clock.

“Right then,” said Hermione, check­ing her watch. “she ought to be here in about five min­utes. When I’ve Stunned her –“

“Hermione, we know,” said Ron stern­ly. “And I thought we were sup­posed to open the door be­fore she got here?”

Hermione squealed.

“I near­ly for­got! Stand back –“

She point­ed her wand at the pad­locked and heav­ily graf­fi­tied fire door be­side them, which burst open with a crash. The dark cor­ri­dor be­hind it led, as they knew from their care­ful scout­ing trips, in­to an emp­ty the­ater. Hermione pulled the door back to­ward her, to make it look as thought it was still closed.

“And now,” she said, turn­ing, back to face the oth­er two in the al­ley­way, “we put on the Cloak again –“

“—and we wait,” Ron fin­ished, throw­ing it over Hermione’s head like a blan­ket over a bird­cage and rolling his eyes at Har­ry.

Lit­tle more than a minute lat­er, there was a tiny pop and a lit­tle Min­istry witch with fly­away gray hair Ap­pa­rat­ed feet from them, blink­ing a lit­tle in the sud­den bright­ness: the sun had just come out from be­hind a cloud. She bare­ly had time to en­joy the un­ex­pect­ed warmth, how­ev­er, be­fore Hermione’s silent Stun­ning Spell hit her in the chest and she top­pled over.

“Nice­ly done, Hermione,” said Ron, emerg­ing be­hind a bin be­side the the­ater door as Har­ry took off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. To­geth­er they car­ried the lit­tle witch in­to the dark pas­sage­way that led back­stage. Hermione plucked a few hairs from the witch’s head and added them to a flask of mud­dy Polyjuice Po­tion she had tak­en from the bead­ed bag. Ron was rum­mag­ing through the lit­tle witch’s hand­bag.

“She’s Mafal­da Hop­kirk,” he said, read­ing a small card that iden­ti­fied their vic­tim as an as­sis­tant in the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice. “You’d bet­ter take this, Hermione, and here are the to­kens.”

He passed her sev­er­al small gold­en coins, all em­bossed with the let­ters M.O.M., which he had tak­en from the witch’s purse.

Hermione drank the Polyjuice Po­tion, which was now a pleas­ant he­liotrope col­or, and with­in sec­onds stood be­fore them, the dou­ble of Mafal­da Hop­kirk. As she re­moved Mafal­da’s spec­ta­cles and put them on, Har­ry checked his watch.

“We’re run­ning late, Mr. Mag­ical Main­te­nance will be here any sec­ond.”

They hur­ried to close the door on the re­al Mafal­da; Har­ry and Ron threw the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over them­selves but Hermione re­mained in view, wait­ing. Sec­onds lat­er there was an­oth­er pop, and a small, fer­re­ty look­ing wiz­ard ap­peared be­fore them.

“Oh, hel­lo, Mafal­da.”

“Hel­lo!” said Hermione in a qua­very voice, “How are you to­day?”

“Not so good, ac­tu­al­ly,” replied the lit­tle wiz­ard, who looked thor­ough­ly down­cast.

As Hermione and the wiz­ard head­ed for the main road, Har­ry and Ron crept along be­hind them.

“I’m sor­ry to hear you’re un­der the weath­er,” said Hermione, talk­ing firm­ly over the lit­tle wiz­ard and he tried to ex­pound up­on his prob­lems; it was es­sen­tial to stop him from reach­ing the street. “Here, have a sweet.”

“Eh? Oh, no thanks –“

“I in­sist!” said Hermione ag­gres­sive­ly, shak­ing the bag of pastilles in his face. Look­ing rather alarmed, the lit­tle wiz­ard took one.

The ef­fect was in­stan­ta­neous. The mo­ment the pastille touched his tongue, the lit­tle wiz­ard start­ed vom­it­ing so hard that he did not even no­tice as Hermione yanked a hand­ful of hairs from the top of his head.

“Oh dear!” she said, as he splat­tered the al­ley with sick. “Per­haps you’d bet­ter take the day off!”

“No – no!” He choked and retched, try­ing to con­tin­ue on his way de­spite be­ing un­able to walk straight. “I must – to­day – must go – “

“But that’s just sil­ly!” said Hermione, alarmed. “You can’t go to work in this state – I think you ought to go to St. Mun­go’s and get them to sort you out.”

The wiz­ard had col­lapsed, heav­ing, on­to all fours, still try­ing to crawl to­ward the main street.

“You sim­ply can’t go to work like this!” cried Hermione.

At last he seemed to ac­cept the truth of her words. Us­ing a re­posed Hermione to claw his way back in­to a stand­ing po­si­tion, he turned on the spot and van­ished, leav­ing noth­ing be­hind but the bag Ron had snatched from his hand as he went and some fly­ing chunks of vom­it.

“Urgh,” said Hermione, hold­ing up the skirt of her robe to avoid the pud­dles of sick. “It would have made much less mess to Stun him too.”

“Yeah,” said Ron, emerg­ing from un­der the cloak hold­ing the wiz­ard’s bag, “but I still think a whole pile of un­con­scious bod­ies would have drawn more at­ten­tion. Keen on his job, though, isn’t he? Chuck us the hair and the po­tion, then.”

With­in two min­utes, Ron stood be­fore them, as small and fer­re­ty as the sick wiz­ard, and wear­ing the navy blue robes that had been fold­ed in his bag.

“Weird he wasn’t wear­ing them to­day, wasn’t it, see­ing how much he want­ed to go? Any­way, I’m Reg Cat­ter­mole, ac­cord­ing to the la­bel in the back.”

“Now wait here,” Hermione told Har­ry, who was still un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, “and we’ll be back with some hairs for you.”

He had to wait ten min­utes, but it seemed much longer to Har­ry, skulk­ing alone in the sick-​splat­tered al­ley­way be­side the door con­ceal­ing the Stunned Mafal­da. Fi­nal­ly Ron and Hermione reap­peared.

“We don’t know who he is,” Hermione said, pass­ing Har­ry sev­er­al curly black hairs, “but he’s gone home with a dread­ful nose­bleed! Here, he’s pret­ty tall, you’ll need big­ger robes …”

She pulled out a set of the old robes Kreach­er had laun­dered for them, and Har­ry re­tired to take the po­tion and change.

Once the painful trans­for­ma­tion was com­plete he was more than six feet tall and, from what he could tell from his well-​mus­cled arms, pow­er­ful­ly built. He al­so had a beard. Stow­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and his glass­es in­side his new robes, he re­joined the oth­er two.

“Blimey, that’s scary,” said Ron, look­ing up at Har­ry, who now tow­ered over him.

“Take one of Mafal­da’s to­kens,” Hermione told Har­ry, “and let’s go, it’s near­ly nine.”

They stepped out of the al­ley­way to­geth­er. Fifty yards along the crowd­ed pave­ment there were spiked black rail­ings flank­ing two flights of stairs, one la­beled GEN­TLE­MEN, the oth­er LADIES.

“See you in a mo­ment, then,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly, and she tot­tered off down the steps to LADIES. Har­ry and Ron joined a num­ber of odd­ly dressed men de­scend­ing in­to what ap­peared to be an or­di­nary un­der­ground pub­lic toi­let, tiled in grimy black and white.

“Morn­ing, Reg!” called an­oth­er wiz­ard in navy blue robes as he let him­self in­to a cu­bi­cle by in­sert­ing his gold­en to­ken in­to a slot in the door. “Bloom­ing pain in the bum, this, eh? Forc­ing us all to get to work this way! Who are they ex­pect­ing to turn up, Har­ry Pot­ter?”

The wiz­ard roared with laugh­ter at his own wit. Ron gave a forced chuck­le.

“Yeah,” he said, “stupid, isn’t it?”

And he and Har­ry let them­selves in­to ad­join­ing cu­bi­cles.

To Har­ry’s left and right came the sound of flush­ing. He crouched down and peered through the gap at the bot­tom of the cu­bi­cle, just in time to see a pair of boot­ed feet climb­ing in­to the toi­let next door. He looked left and saw Ron blink­ing at him.

“We have to flush our­selves in?” he whis­pered.

“Looks like it,” Har­ry whis­pered back; his voice came out deep and grav­el­ly.

They both stood up. Feel­ing ex­cep­tion­al­ly fool­ish, Har­ry clam­bered in­to the toi­let.

He knew at once that he had done the right thing; thought he ap­peared to be stand­ing in wa­ter, his shoes, feet, and robes re­mained quite dry. He reached up, pulled the chain, and next mo­ment had zoomed down a short chute, emerg­ing out of a fire­place in­to the Min­istry of Mag­ic.

He got up clum­si­ly; there was a lot more of his body than he was ac­cus­tomed to. The great Atri­um seemed dark­er than Har­ry re­mem­bered it. Pre­vi­ous­ly a gold­en foun­tain had filled the cen­ter of the hall, cast­ing shim­mer­ing spots of light over the pol­ished wood­en floor and walls. Now a gi­gan­tic stat­ue of black stone dom­inat­ed the scene. It was rather fright­en­ing, this vast sculp­ture of a witch and a wiz­ard sit­ting on or­nate­ly carved thrones, look­ing down at the Min­istry work­ers top­pling out of fire­places be­low them. En­graved in foot-​high let­ters at the base of the stat­ue were the words MAG­IC IS MIGHT.

Har­ry re­ceived a heavy blow on the back of the legs. An­oth­er wiz­ard had just flown out of the fire­place be­hind him.

“Out of the way, can’t y – oh, sor­ry, Run­corn.”

Clear­ly fright­ened, the bald­ing wiz­ard hur­ried away. Ap­par­ent­ly the man who Har­ry was im­per­son­at­ing, Run­corn, was in­tim­idat­ing.

“Psst!” said a voice, and he looked around to see a whispy lit­tle witch and the fer­re­ty wiz­ard from Mag­ical Main­te­nance ges­tur­ing to him from over be­side the stat­ue. Har­ry has­tened to join them.

“You got in all right, then?” Hermione whis­pered to Har­ry.

“No, he’s still stuck in the hog,” said Ron.

“Oh, very fun­ny … It’s hor­ri­ble, isn’t it?” she said to Har­ry, who was star­ing up at the stat­ue. “Have you seen what they’re sit­ting on?”

Har­ry looked more close­ly and re­al­ized that what he had thought were dec­ora­tive­ly carved thrones were ac­tu­al­ly mounds of carved hu­mans: hun­dreds and hun­dreds of naked bod­ies, men, wom­en, and chil­dren, all with rather stupid, ug­ly faces, twist­ed and pressed to­geth­er to sup­port the weight of the hand­some­ly robed wiz­ards.

“Mug­gles,” whis­pered Hermione, “In their right­ful place. Come on, let’s get go­ing.”

They joined the stream of witch­es and wiz­ards mov­ing to­ward the gold­en gates at the end of the hall, look­ing around as sur­rep­ti­tious­ly as pos­si­ble, but there was no sign of the dis­tinc­tive fig­ure of Do­lores Um­bridge. They passed through the gates and in­to a small­er hall, where queues were form­ing in front of twen­ty gold­en grilles hous­ing as many lifts. They had bare­ly joined the near­est one when a voice said, “Cat­ter­mole!”

They looked around: Har­ry’s stom­ach turned over. One of the Death Eaters who had wit­nessed Dum­ble­dore’s death was strid­ing to­ward them. The Min­istry work­ers be­side them fell silent, their eyes down­cast; Har­ry could feel fear rip­pling through them. The man’s scowl­ing, slight­ly brutish face was some­how at odds with his mag­nif­icent, sweep­ing robes, which were em­broi­dered with much gold thread. Some­one in the crowd around the lifts called syco­phan­ti­cal­ly, “Morn­ing, Yax­ley!” Yax­ley ig­nored them.

“I re­quest­ed some­body from Mag­ical Main­te­nance to sort out my of­fice, Cat­ter­mole. It’s still rain­ing in there.”

Ron looked around as though hop­ing some­body else would in­ter­vene, but no­body spoke.

“Rain­ing … in your of­fice? That’s – that’s not good, is it?”

Ron gave a ner­vous laugh. Yax­ley’s eyes widened.

“You think it’s fun­ny, Cat­ter­mole, do you?”

A pair of witch­es broke away from the queue for the lift and bus­tled off.

“No,” said Ron, “no, of course –“

“You re­al­ize that I am on my way down­stairs to in­ter­ro­gate your wife, Cat­ter­mole? In fact, I’m quite sur­prised you’re not down there hold­ing her hand while she waits. Al­ready giv­en her up as a bad job, have you? Prob­ably wise. Be sure and mar­ry a pure­blood next time.”

Hermione had let out a lit­tle squeak of hor­ror. Yax­ley looked at her. She cough fee­bly and turned away.

“I – I –“ stam­mered Ron.

“But if my wife were ac­cused of be­ing a Mud­blood,” said Yax­ley, “—not that any wom­an I mar­ried would ev­er be mis­tak­en for such filth – and the Head of De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment need­ed a job do­ing, I would make it my pri­or­ity to do this job, Cat­ter­mole. Do you un­der­stand me?”

“Yes,” whis­pered Ron.

“Then at­tend to it, Cat­ter­mole, and if my of­fice is not com­plete­ly dry with­in an hour, your wife’s Blood Sta­tus will be in even greater doubt than it is now.”

The gold­en grille be­fore them clat­tered open. With a nod and un­pleas­ant smile to Har­ry, who was ev­ident­ly ex­pect­ed to ap­pre­ci­ate this treat­ment of Cat­ter­mole, Yax­ley swept away to­ward an­oth­er lift. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione en­tered theirs, but no­body fol­lowed them: It was as if they were in­fec­tious. The grilles shut with a clang and the lift be­gan to move up­ward.

“What am I go­ing to do?” Ron asked the oth­er two at once; he looked strick­en. “If I don’t turn up, my wife … I mean, Cat­ter­mole’s wife – “

“We’ll come with you, we should stick to­geth­er –“ be­gan Har­ry, but Ron shook his head fever­ish­ly.

“That’s men­tal, we haven’t got much time. You two find Um­bridge, I’ll go and sort out Yax­ley’s of­fice – but how do I stop a rain­ing?”

“Try Fi­nite In­can­tatem,” said Hermione at once, “that should stop the rain if it’s a hex or curse; if it doesn’t some­thing’s gone wrong with an At­mo­spher­ic Charm, which will be more dif­fi­cult to fix, so as an in­ter­im mea­sure try Im­per­vius to pro­tect his be­long­ings – “

“Say it again, slow­ly – “ said Ron, search­ing his pock­ets des­per­ate­ly for a quill, but at that mo­ment the lift jud­dered to a halt. A dis­em­bod­ied fe­male voice said, “Lev­el four, De­part­ment for the Reg­ula­tion and Con­trol of Mag­ical Crea­tures, in­cor­po­rat­ing Beast, Be­ing, and Spir­it Di­vi­sions, Gob­lin Li­ai­son Of­fice, and Pest Ad­vi­so­ry Bu­reau,” and the grilles slid open again, ad­mit­ting a cou­ple of wiz­ards and sev­er­al pale vi­olet pa­per air­planes that flut­tered around the lamp in the ceil­ing of the lift.

“Morn­ing, Al­bert,” said a bushi­ly whiskered man, smil­ing at Har­ry. He glanced over at Ron and Hermione as the lift creaked up­ward once more; Hermione was now whis­per­ing fran­tic in­struc­tions to Ron. The wiz­ard leaned to­ward Har­ry, leer­ing, and mut­ter­ing “Dirk Cress­well, eh? From Gob­lin Li­ai­son? Nice one, Al­bert. I’m pret­ty con­fi­dent I’ll get his job now!”

He winked. Har­ry smiled back, hop­ing that this would suf­fice. The lift stopped; the grilles opened once more.

“Lev­el two, De­part­ment of Mag­ical Law En­force­ment, in­clud­ing the Im­prop­er Use of Mag­ic Of­fice, Au­ror Head­quar­ters, and Wiz­eng­amot Ad­min­is­tra­tion Ser­vices,” said the dis­em­bod­ied witch’s voice.

Har­ry saw Hermione give Ron a lit­tle push and he hur­ried out of the lift, fol­lowed by the oth­er wiz­ards, leav­ing Har­ry and Hermione alone. The mo­ment the gold­en door had closed Hermione said, very fast, “Ac­tu­al­ly, Har­ry, I think I’d bet­ter go af­ter him, I don’t think he knows what he’s do­ing and if he gets caught the whole thing – “

“Lev­el one, Min­is­ter of Mag­ic and Sup­port Staff.”

The gold­en grilles slid apart again and Hermione gasped. Four peo­ple stood be­fore them, two of them deep in con­ver­sa­tion: a long-​haired wiz­ard wear­ing mag­nif­icent robes of black and gold, and a squat, toad­like witch wear­ing a vel­vet bow in her short hair and clutch­ing a clip­board to her chest.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTEEN


THE MUG­GLE-​BORN REG­IS­TRA­TION COM­MIS­SION





“Ah, Mafal­da!” said Um­bridge, look­ing at Hermione. “Travers sent you, did he?”

“Y-​yes,” squeaked Hermione.

“God, you’ll do per­fect­ly well.” Um­bridge spoke to the wiz­ard in black and gold. “That’s that prob­lem solved. Min­is­ter, if Mafal­da can be spared for record-​keep­ing we shall be able to start straight­away.” She con­sult­ed her clip­board. “Ten peo­ple to­day and one of them the wife of a Min­istry em­ploy­ee! Tut, tut… even here, in the heart of the Min­istry!” She stepped in­to the lift be­sides Hermione, as did the two wiz­ards who had been lis­ten­ing to Um­bridge’s con­ver­sa­tion with the Min­is­ter. “We’ll go straight down, Mafal­da, you’ll find ev­ery­thing you need in the court­room. Good morn­ing, Al­bert, aren’t you get­ting out?”

“Yes, of course,” said Har­ry in Run­corn’s deep voice.

Har­ry stepped out of the life. The gold­en grilles clanged shut be­hind him. Glanc­ing over his shoul­der, Har­ry saw Hermione’s anx­ious face sink­ing back out of sight, a tall wiz­ard on ei­ther side of her, Um­bridge’s vel­vet hair-​bow lev­el with her shoul­der.

“What brings you here, Run­corn?” asked the new Min­is­ter of Mag­ic. His long black hair and beard were streaked with sil­ver and a great over­hang­ing fore­head shad­owed his glint­ing eyes, putting Har­ry in the mind of a crab look­ing out from be­neath a rock.

“Need­ed a quick word with,” Har­ry hes­itat­ed for a frac­tion of a sec­ond, “Arthur Weasley. Some­one said he was up on lev­el one.”

“Ah,” said Plum Thick­nesse. “Has he been caught hav­ing con­tact with an Un­de­sir­able?”

“No,” said Har­ry, his throat dry. “No, noth­ing like that.”

“Ah, well. It’s on­ly a mat­ter of time,” said Thick­nesse. “If you ask me, the blood traitors are as bad as the Mud­bloods. Good day, Run­corn.”

“Good day, Min­is­ter.”

Har­ry watched Thick­nesse march away along the thick­ly car­pet­ed cor­ri­dor. The mo­ment the Min­is­ter had passed out of sight, Har­ry tugged the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out from un­der his heavy black cloak, threw it over him­self, and set off along the cor­ri­dor in the op­po­site di­rec­tion. Run­corn was so tall that Har­ry was forced to stoop to make sure his big feet were hid­den.

Pan­ic pulsed in the pit of his stom­ach. As he passed gleam­ing wood­en door af­ter gleam­ing wood­en door, each bear­ing a small plaque with the own­er’s name and oc­cu­pa­tion up­on it, the might of the Min­istry, its com­plex­ity, its im­pen­etra­bil­ity, seemed to force it­self up­on him so that the plan he had been care­ful­ly con­coct­ing with Ron and Hermione over the past four weeks seemed laugh­ably child­ish. They had con­cen­trat­ed all their ef­forts on get­ting in­side with­out be­ing de­tect­ed: They had not giv­en a mo­ment’s thought to what they would do if they were forced to sep­arate. Now Hermione was stuck in court pro­ceed­ings, which would un­doubt­ed­ly last hours; Ron was strug­gling to do mag­ic that Har­ry was sure was be­yond him, a wom­an’s lib­er­ty pos­si­bly de­pend­ing on the out­come, and he, Har­ry, was wan­der­ing around on the top floor when he knew per­fect­ly well that his quar­ry had just gone down in the lift.

He stopped walk­ing, leaned against a wall, and tried to de­cide what to do. The si­lence pressed up­on him: There was no bustling or talk or swift foot­steps here the pur­ple-​car­pet­ed cor­ri­dors were as hushed as though the Muf­flia­to charm had been cast over the place.

Her of­fice must be up here, Har­ry thought.

It seemed most un­like­ly that Um­bridge would keep her jew­el­ry in her of­fice, but on the oth­er hand it seemed fool­ish not to search it to make sure. He there­fore set off along the cor­ri­dor again, pass­ing no­body but a frown­ing wiz­ard who was mur­mur­ing in­struc­tions to a quill that float­ed in front of him, scrib­bling on a trail of parch­ment.

Now pay­ing at­ten­tion to the names on the doors, Har­ry turned a cor­ner. Halfway along the next cor­ri­dor he emerged in­to a wide, open space where a dozen witch­es and wiz­ards sat in rows at small desks not un­like school desks, though much more high­ly pol­ished and free from graf­fi­ti. Har­ry paused to watch them, for the ef­fect was quite mes­mer­iz­ing. They were all wav­ing and twid­dling their wands in uni­son, and squares of col­ored pa­per were fly­ing in ev­ery di­rec­tion like lit­tle pink kites. Af­ter a few sec­onds, Har­ry re­al­ized that there was a rhythm to the pro­ceed­ings, that the pa­pers all formed the same pat­tern and af­ter a few more sec­onds he re­al­ized what he was watch­ing was the cre­ation of pam­phlets – that the pa­per squares were pages, which, when as­sem­bled, fold­ed and mag­icked in­to place, fell in­to neat stacks be­side each witch or wiz­ard.

Har­ry crept clos­er, al­though the work­ers were so in­tent on what they were do­ing that he doubt­ed they would no­tice a car­pet-​muf­fled foot­step, and he slid a com­plet­ed pam­phlet from the pile be­side a young witch. He ex­am­ined it be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Its pink cov­er was em­bla­zoned with a gold­en ti­tle:





Mud­bloods

and the Dan­gers They Pose to

a Peace­ful Pure-​Blood So­ci­ety



Be­neath the ti­tle was a pic­ture of a red rose with a sim­per­ing face in the mid­dle of its petals, be­ing stran­gled by a green weed with fangs and a scowl. There was no au­thor’s name up­on the pam­phlet, but again, the scars on the back of his right hand seemed to tin­gle as he ex­am­ined it. Then the young witch be­side him con­firmed his sus­pi­cion as she said, still wav­ing and twirling her wand, “Will the old hag be in­ter­ro­gat­ing Mud­bloods all day, does any­one know?”

“Care­ful,” said the wiz­ard be­side her, glanc­ing around ner­vous­ly; one of his pages slipped and fell to the floor.

“What, has she got mag­ic ears as well as an eye, now?”

The witch glanced to­ward the shin­ing ma­hogany door fac­ing the space full of pam­phlet-​mak­ers; Har­ry looked too, and the rage reared in him like a snake. Where there might have been a peep­hole on a Mug­gle front door, a large, round eye with a bright blue iris had been set in­to the wood – an eye that was shock­ing­ly fa­mil­iar to any­body who had known Alas­tor Moody.

For a split sec­ond Har­ry for­got where he was and what he was do­ing there: He even for­got that he was in­vis­ible. He strode straight over to the door to ex­am­ine the eye. It was not mov­ing. It gazed blind­ly up­ward, frozen. The plaque be­neath it read:

Do­lores Um­bridge

Se­nior Un­der­sec­re­tary to the Min­is­ter

Be­low that a slight­ly shinier new plaque read:

Head of the Mug­gle-​Born

Reg­is­tra­tion Com­mis­sion

Har­ry looked back at the dozen pam­phlet-​mak­ers: Though they were in­tent up­on their work, he could hard­ly sup­pose that they would not no­tice if the door of an emp­ty of­fice opened in front of them. He there­fore with­drew from an in­ner pock­et an odd ob­ject with lit­tle wav­ing legs and a rub­ber-​bulbed horn for a body. Crouch­ing down be­neath the Cloak, he placed the De­coy Det­ona­tor on the ground.

It scut­tled away at once through the legs of the witch­es and wiz­ards in front of him. A few mo­ments lat­er, dur­ing which Har­ry wait­ed with his hand up­on the door­knob, there came a loud bang and a great deal of acrid smoke bil­lowed from a cor­ner. The young witch in the front row shrieked: Pink pages flew ev­ery­where as she and her fel­lows jumped up, look­ing around for the source of the com­mo­tion. Har­ry turned the door­knob, stepped in­to Um­bridge’s of­fice, and closed the door be­hind him.

He felt he had stepped back in time. The room was ex­act­ly like Um­bridge’s of­fice at Hog­warts: Lace draperies, doilies and dried flow­ers cov­ered ev­ery sur­face. The walls bore the same or­na­men­tal plates, each fea­tur­ing a high­ly col­ored, berib­boned kit­ten, gam­bol­ing and frisk­ing with sick­en­ing cute­ness. The desk was cov­ered with a floun­cy, flow­ered cloth. Be­hind Mad-​eye’s eye, a tele­scop­ic at­tach­ment en­abled Um­bridge to spy on the work­ers on the oth­er side of the door. Har­ry took a look through it and saw that they were all still gath­ered around the De­coy Det­ona­tor. He wrenched the tele­scope out of the door, leav­ing a hole be­hind, pulled the mag­ical eye­ball out of it, and placed it in his pock­et. The he turned to face the room again, raised his wand, and mur­mured, “Ac­cio Lock­er.”

Noth­ing hap­pened, but he had not ex­pect­ed it to; no doubt Um­bridge knew all about pro­tec­tive charms and spells. He there­fore hur­ried be­hind her desk and be­gan pulling open all the draw­ers. He saw quills and note­books and Spel­lotape; en­chant­ed pa­per clips that coiled snake­like from their draw­er and had be beat­en back; a fussy lit­tle lace box full of spare hair bows and clips; but no sign of a lock­et.

There was a fil­ing cab­inet be­hind the desk: Har­ry set to search­ing it. Like Filch’s fil­ing cab­inet at Hog­warts, it was full of fold­ers, each la­beled with a name. It was not un­til Har­ry reached the bot­tom­most draw­er that he saw some­thing to dis­tract him from the search: Mr. Weasley’s file.

He pulled it out and opened it.

Arthur Weasley

Blood Sta­tus: Pure­blood, but with un­ac­cept­able pro-​Mug­gle lean­ings. Known mem­ber of the Or­der of the Phoenix.

Fam­ily: Wife (pure­blood), sev­en chil­dren, two youngest at Hog­warts. NB: Youngest son cur­rent­ly at home, se­ri­ous­ly ill, Min­istry in­spec­tors have con­firmed.

Se­cu­ri­ty Sta­tus: TRACKED. All move­ments are be­ing mon­itored. Strong like­li­hood Un­de­sir­able No. 1 will con­tact (has stayed with Weasley fam­ily pre­vi­ous­ly)

“Un­de­sir­able Num­ber One,” Har­ry mut­tered un­der his breath as he re­placed Mr. Weasley’s fold­er and shut the draw­er. He had an idea he knew who that was, and sure enough, as he straight­ened up and glanced around the of­fice for fresh hid­ing places he saw a poster of him­self on the wall, with the words UN­DE­SIR­ABLE NO. 1 em­bla­zoned across his chest. A lit­tle pink note was stuck to it with a pic­ture of a kit­ten in the cor­ner. Har­ry moved across to read it and saw that Um­bridge had writ­ten, “To be pun­ished.”

An­gri­er than ev­er, he pro­ceed­ed to grope in the bot­toms of the vas­es and bas­kets of dried flow­ers, but was not at all sur­prised that the lock­et was not there. He gave the of­fice one last sweep­ing look, and his heart skipped a beat. Dum­ble­dore was star­ing at him from a small rect­an­gu­lar mir­ror, propped up on a book­case be­side the desk.

Har­ry crossed the room at a run and snatched it up, but re­al­ized that the mo­ment he touched it that it was not a mir­ror at all. Dum­ble­dore was smil­ing wist­ful­ly out of the front cov­er of a glossy book. Har­ry had not im­me­di­ate­ly no­ticed the curly green writ­ing across his hat – The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore – nor the slight­ly small­er writ­ing across his chest: “by Ri­ta Skeeter, best­selling au­thor of Ar­man­do Dip­pet: Mas­ter or Mo­ron?”

Har­ry opened the book at ran­dom and saw a full-​page pho­to­graph of two teenage boys, both laugh­ing im­mod­er­ate­ly with their arms around each oth­er’s shoul­ders. Dum­ble­dore, now with el­bow-​length hair, had grown a tiny wispy beard that re­called the one on Krum’s chin that had so an­noyed Ron. The boy who roared in silent amuse­ment be­side Dum­ble­dore had a glee­ful, wild look about him. His gold­en hair fell in curls to his shoul­ders. Har­ry won­dered whether it was a young Doge, but be­fore he could check the cap­tion, the door of the of­fice opened.

If Thick­nesse had not been look­ing over his shoul­der as he en­tered, Har­ry would not have had time to pull the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over him­self. As it was, he thought Thick­nesse might have caught a glimpse of move­ment, be­cause for a mo­ment or two he re­mained quite still, star­ing cu­ri­ous­ly at the place where Har­ry had just van­ished. Per­haps de­cid­ing that that all he had seen was Dum­ble­dore scratch­ing his nose on the front of the book, for Har­ry had hasti­ly re­placed it up­on the shelf. Thick­nesse fi­nal­ly walked to the desk and point­ed his wand at the quill stand­ing ready in the ink pot. It sprang out and be­gan scrib­bling a note to Um­bridge. Very slow­ly, hard­ly dar­ing to breathe, Har­ry backed out of the of­fice in­to the open area be­yond.

The pam­phlet-​mak­ers were still clus­tered around the re­mains of the De­coy Det­ona­tor, which con­tin­ued to hoot fee­bly as it smoked. Har­ry hur­ried off up the cor­ri­dor as the young witch said, “I bet it sneaked up here from Ex­per­imen­tal Charms, they’re so care­less, re­mem­ber that poi­sonous duck?”

Speed­ing back to­ward the lifts, Har­ry re­viewed his op­tions. It had nev­er been like­ly that the lock­et was here at the Min­istry, and there was no hope of be­witch­ing its where­abouts out of Um­bridge while she was sit­ting in a crowd­ed court. Their pri­or­ity now had to be to leave the Min­istry be­fore they were ex­posed, and try again an­oth­er day. The first thing to do was to find Ron, and then they could work out a way of ex­tract­ing Hermione from the court­room.

The lift was emp­ty when it ar­rived. Har­ry jumped in and pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak as it start­ed its de­scent. To his enor­mous re­lief, when it rat­tled to a halt at lev­el two, a soak­ing-​wet and wild-​eyed Ron got in.

“M-​morn­ing,” he stam­mered to Har­ry as the lift set off again.

“Ron, it’s me, Har­ry!”

“Har­ry! Blimey, I for­got what you looked like – why isn’t Hermione with you?”

“She had to go down to the court­rooms with Um­bridge, she couldn’t refuse, and –“

But be­fore Har­ry could fin­ish the lift had stopped again. The doors opened and Mr. Weasley walked in­side, talk­ing to an el­der­ly witch whose blonde hair was teased so high it re­sem­bled an anthill.

“… I quite un­der­stand what you’re say­ing, Wakan­da, but I’m afraid I can­not be par­ty to – “

Mr. Weasley broke off; he had no­ticed Har­ry. It was very strange to have Mr. Weasley glare at him with that much dis­like. The lift doors closed and the four of them trun­dled down­ward once more.

“Oh hel­lo, Reg,” said Mr. Weasley, look­ing around at the sound of steady drip­ping from Ron’s robes. “Isn’t your wife in for ques­tion­ing to­day? Er – what’s hap­pened to you? Why are you so wet?”

“Yax­ley’s of­fice is rain­ing,” said Ron. He ad­dressed Mr. Weasley’s shoul­der, and Har­ry felt sure he was scared that his fa­ther might rec­og­nize him if they looked di­rect­ly in­to each oth­er’s eyes. “I couldn’t stop it, so they’ve sent me to get Bernie – Pillsworth, I think they said –“

“Yes, a lot of of­fices have been rain­ing late­ly,” said Mr. Weasley. “Did you try Me­terolo­jinx Re­can­to? It worked for Bletch­ley.”

“Me­te­olo­jinx Re­can­to?” whis­pered Ron. “No, I didn’t. Thanks, D – I mean, thanks, Arthur.”

The lift doors opened; the old witch with the anthill hair left, and Ron dart­ed past her out of sight. Har­ry made to fol­low him, but found his path blocked as Per­cy Weasley strode in­to the lift, his nose buried in some pa­pers he was read­ing.

Not un­til the doors had clanged shut again did Per­cy re­al­ize he was in a lit with his fa­ther. He glanced up, saw Mr. Weasley, turned radish red, and left the lift the mo­ment the doors opened again. For the sec­ond time, Har­ry tried to get out, but this time found his way blocked by Mr. Weasley’s arm.

“One mo­ment, Run­corn.”

The lift doors closed and as they clanked down an­oth­er floor, Mr. Weasley said, “I hear you had in­for­ma­tion about Dirk Cress­well.”

Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that Mr. Weasley’s anger was no less be­cause of the brush with Per­cy. He de­cid­ed his best chance was to act stupid.

“Sor­ry?” he said.

“Don’t pre­tend, Run­corn,” said Mr. Weasley fierce­ly. “You tracked down the wiz­ard who faked his fam­ily tree, didn’t you?”

“I – so what if I did?” said Har­ry.

“So Dirk Cress­well is ten times the wiz­ard you are,” said Mr. Weasley qui­et­ly, as the lift sank ev­er low­er. “And if he sur­vives Azk­aban, you’ll have to an­swer to him, not to men­tion his wife, his sons, and his friends –“

“Arthur,” Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed, “you know you’re be­ing tracked, don’t you?”

“Is that a threat, Run­corn?” said Mr. Weasley loud­ly.

“No,” said Har­ry, “it’s a fact! They’re watch­ing your ev­ery move –“ “He's dead,” said Har­ry, “Bel­la­trix Lestrange killed him.”

The lift doors opened. They had reached the Atri­um. Mr. Weasley gave Har­ry a scathing look and swept from the lift. Har­ry stood there, shak­en. He wished he was im­per­son­at­ing some­body oth­er than Run­corn…. The lift doors clanged shut. The bar­man face was im­pas­sive. Af­ter a few mo­ments he said, “I'm sor­ry to hear it, I liked that elf.”

Har­ry pulled out the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and put it back on. He would try to ex­tri­cate Hermione on his own while Ron was deal­ing with the rain­ing of­fice. When the doors opened, he stepped out in­to a torch-​lit stone pas­sage­way quite dif­fer­ent from the wood-​pan­eled and car­pet­ed cor­ri­dors above. As the left rat­tled away again, Har­ry shiv­ered slight­ly, look­ing to­ward the dis­tant black door that marked the en­trance to the De­part­ment of Mys­ter­ies. He turned away, light­ning lamps with prods of his wand, not look­ing at any of them.

He set off, his des­ti­na­tion not the black door, but the door­way he re­mem­bered on the left hand side, which opened on­to the flight of stairs down to the court cham­bers. His mind grap­pled with pos­si­bil­ities as he crept down them: He still had a cou­ple of De­coy Det­ona­tors, but per­haps it would be bet­ter to sim­ply knock on the court­room door, en­ter as Run­corn, and ask for a quick word with Mafal­da? Of course, he did not know whether Run­corn was suf­fi­cient­ly im­por­tant to get away with this, and even if he man­aged it, Hermione’s non-​reap­pear­ance might trig­ger a search be­fore they were clear of the Min­istry…. “You're Aber­forth,” said Har­ry to the man's back.

Lost in thought, he did not im­me­di­ate­ly reg­is­ter the un­nat­ural chill that was creep­ing over him, as if he were de­scend­ing in­to fog. It was be­com­ing cold­er and cold­er with ev­ery step he took; a cold that reached right down his throat and tore at his lungs. And then he felt that steal­ing sense of de­spair, or hope­less­ness, fill­ing him, ex­pand­ing in­side him…. He nei­ther con­firmed or de­nied it, but bent to light the fire.

De­men­tors , he thought. “How did you get this?” Har­ry asked, walk­ing across to Sir­ius's mir­ror, the twin of the one he had bro­ken

And as he reached the foot of the stairs and turned to his right he saw a dread­ful scene. The dark pas­sage out­side the court­rooms was packed with tall, black-​hood­ed fig­ures, their faces com­plete­ly hid­den, their ragged breath­ing the on­ly sound in the place. The pet­ri­fied Mug­gle-​borns brought in for ques­tion­ing sat hud­dled and shiv­er­ing on hard wood­en bench­es. Most of them were hid­ing their faces in their hands, per­haps in an in­stinc­tive at­tempt to shield them­selves from the de­men­tors’ greedy mouths. Some were ac­com­pa­nied by fam­ilies, oth­ers sat alone. The de­men­tors were glid­ing up and down in front of them, and the cold, and the hope­less­ness, and the de­spair of the place laid them­selves up­on Har­ry like a curse…. near­ly two years be­fore.

Fight it, he told him­self, but he knew that he could not con­jure a Pa­tronus here with­out re­veal­ing him­self in­stant­ly. So he moved for­ward as silent­ly as he could, and with ev­ery step he took numb­ness seemed to steal over his brain, but he forced him­self to think of Hermione and of Ron, who need­ed him. “Bought it from Dung 'bout a year ago,” said Aber­forth. "Al­bus told me what it was. Been try­ing to keep

Mov­ing through the tow­er­ing black fig­ures was ter­ri­fy­ing: The eye­less faces hid­den be­neath their hoods turned as he passed, and he felt sure that they sensed him, sensed, per­haps, a hu­man pres­ence that still had some hope, some re­silience…. an eye out for you."

And then, abrupt­ly and shock­ing­ly amid the frozen si­lence, one of the dun­geon doors on the left of the cor­ri­dor was flung open and screams echoed out of it. Ron gasped.

“No, no, I’m half-​blood, I’m half-​blood, I tell you! My fa­ther was a wiz­ard, he was, look him up, Arkie Alder­ton, he’s a well known broom­stick de­sign­er, look him up, I tell you – get your hands off me, get your hands off –“ “The sil­ver doe,” he said ex­cit­ed­ly, “Was that you too?”

“This is your fi­nal warn­ing,” said Um­bridge’s soft voice, mag­ical­ly mag­ni­fied so that it sound­ed clear­ly over the man’s des­per­ate screams. “If you strug­gle, you will be sub­ject­ed to the De­men­tor’s Kiss.” “What are you talk­ing about?” asked Aber­forth.

The man’s screams sub­sid­ed, but dry sobs echoed through the cor­ri­dor. “Some­one sent a doe Pa­tronus to us!”

“Take him away,” said Um­bridge. “Brains like that, you could be a Death Eater, son. Haven't I just prove my Pa­tronus is a goat?”

Two de­men­tors ap­peared in the door­way of the court­room, their rot­ting, scabbed hands clutch­ing the up­per arms of a wiz­ard who ap­peared to be faint­ing. They glid­ed away down the cor­ri­dor with him, and the dark­ness they trailed be­hind them swal­lowed him from sight. “Oh,” said Ron, “Yeah... well, I'm hun­gry!” he added de­fen­sive­ly as his stom­ach gave an enor­mous

“Next – Mary Cat­ter­mole,” called Um­bridge. rum­ble.

A small wom­an stood up; she was trem­bling from head to foot. Her dark hair was smoothed back in­to a bun and she wore long plain robes. Her face was com­plete­ly blood­less. As she passed the de­men­tors, Har­ry saw her shud­der. “I got food,” said Aber­forth, and he sloped out of the room, reap­pear­ing mo­ments lat­er with a large

“Spare us,” spat Yax­ley. “The brats of Mud­bloods do not stir our sym­pa­thies.”

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s sobs masked Har­ry’s foot­steps as he made his way care­ful­ly to­ward the steps that led up to the raised plat­form. The mo­ment he had passed the place where the Pa­tronus cat pa­trolled, he felt the change in tem­per­ature: It was warm and com­fort­able here. The Pa­tronus, he was sure, was Um­bridge’s, and it glowed bright­ly be­cause she was so hap­py here, in her el­ement, up­hold­ing the twist­ed laws she had helped to write. Slow­ly and very care­ful­ly he edged his way along the plat­form be­hind Um­bridge, Yax­ley, and Hermione, tak­ing a seat be­hind the lat­ter. He was wor­ried about mak­ing Hermione jump. He thought of cast­ing the Muf­flia­to charm up­on Um­bridge and Yax­ley, but even mur­mur­ing the word might cause Hermione alarm. Then Um­bridge raised her voice to ad­dress Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, and Har­ry seized his chance.

“I’m be­hind you,” he whis­pered in­to Hermione’s ear.

As he had ex­pect­ed, she jumped so vi­olent­ly she near­ly over­turned the bot­tle of ink with which she was sup­posed to be record­ing the in­ter­view, but both Um­bridge and Yax­ley were con­cen­trat­ing up­on Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, and this went un­no­ticed.

“A wand was tak­en from you up­on your ar­rival at the Min­istry to­day, Mrs. Cat­ter­mole,” Um­bridge was say­ing. “Eight-​and-​three-​quar­ter inch­es, cher­ry, uni­corn-​hair core. Do you rec­og­nize the de­scrip­tion?”

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole nod­ded, mop­ping her eyes on her sleeve.

“Could you please tell us from which witch or wiz­ard you took that wand?”

He did it in­stinc­tive­ly, with­out any sort of plan, be­cause he hat­ed the sight of her walk­ing alone in­to the dun­geon: As the door be­gan to swing closed, he slipped in­to the court­room be­hind her. loaf of bread, some cheese, and a pewter jug of mead, which he set up­on a small ta­ble in front of the fire.

It was not the same room in which he had once been in­ter­ro­gat­ed for im­prop­er use of mag­ic. This one was much small­er, though the ceil­ing was quite as high it gave the claus­tro­pho­bic sense of be­ing stuck at the bot­tom of a deep well. Ravenous, they ate and drank, and for a while there was sound of chew­ing.

There were more de­men­tors in here, cast­ing their freez­ing au­ra over the place; they stood like face­less sen­tinels in the cor­ners far­thest from the high, raised plat­form. Here, be­hind a balustrade, sat Um­bridge, with Yax­ley on one side of her, and Hermione, quite as white-​faced as Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, on the oth­er. At the foot of the plat­form, a bight-​sil­ver, long-​haired cat prowled up and down, up and down, and Har­ry re­al­ized that it was there to pro­tect the pros­ecu­tors from the de­spair that em­anat­ed from the de­men­tors: That was for the ac­cused to feel, not the ac­cusers. “Right then,” said Aber­forth when the had eat­en their fill and Har­ry and Ron sat slumped dozi­ly in

“Sit down,” said Um­bridge in her soft, silky voice. their chairs. "We need to think of the best way to get you out of here. Can't be done by night, you heard what

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole stum­bled to the sin­gle seat in the mid­dle of the floor be­neath the raised plat­form. The mo­ment she had sat down, chains clinked out of the arms of the chair and bound her there. hap­pens if any­one moves out­doors dur­ing dark­ness: Cat­er­waul­ing Charm's set off, they'll be on­to you like

“You are Mary Eliz­abeth Cat­ter­mole?” asked Um­bridge. bowtruck­les on doxy eggs. I don't reck­on I'll be able to pass of a stag as a goat a sec­ond time. Wait for day­break

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole gave a sin­gle, shaky nod. when cur­few lifts, then you can put your Cloak back on and set out on foot. Get right out of Hogsmeade, up in­to

“Mar­ried to Regi­nald Cat­ter­mole of the Mag­ical Main­te­nance De­part­ment?” the moun­tains, and you'll be able to Dis­ap­pa­rate there. Might see Ha­grid. He's been hid­ing in a cave up there with

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole burst in­to tears. Grawp ev­er since they tried to ar­rest him."

“I don’t know where he is, he was sup­posed to meet me here!” “We're not leav­ing,” said Har­ry. “We need to get in­to Hog­warts.”

Um­bridge ig­nored her. “Don't be stupid, boy,” said Aber­forth.

“Moth­er to Maisie, El­lie and Al­fred Cat­ter­mole?” Mrs. Cat­ter­mole sobbed hard­er than ev­er. “We've got to,” said Har­ry.

“They’re fright­ened, they think that I might not come home –“ “What you've got to do,” said Aber­forth, lean­ing for­ward, "is to get as far from here as from here as you

“T-​took?” sobbed Mrs. Cat­ter­mole. “I didn’t t-​take it from any­body. I b-​bought it when I was eleven years old. It – it – it – chose me.”

She cried hard­er than ev­er.

Um­bridge laughed a soft girl­ish laugh that made Har­ry want to at­tack her. She leaned for­ward over the bar­ri­er, the bet­ter to ob­serve her vic­tim, and some­thing gold swung for­ward too, and dan­gled over the void: the lock­et.

Hermione had seen it; she let out a lit­tle squeak, but Um­bridge and Yax­ley, still in­tent up­on their prey, were deaf to ev­ery­thing else.

“No,” said Um­bridge, “no, I don’t think so, Mrs. Cat­ter­mole. Wands on­ly choose witch­es or wiz­ards. You are not a witch. I have your re­spons­es to the ques­tion­naire that was sent to you here – Mafal­da, pass them to me.”

Um­bridge held out a small hand: She looked so toad­like at that mo­ment that Har­ry was quite sur­prised not to see webs be­tween the stub­by fin­gers. Hermione’s hands were shak­ing with shock. She fum­bled in a pile of doc­uments bal­anced on the chair be­side her, fi­nal­ly with­draw­ing a sheaf of parch­ment with Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s name on it.

“That’s – that’s pret­ty, Do­lores,” she said, point­ing at the pen­dant gleam­ing in the ruf­fled folds of Um­bridge’s blouse.

“What?” snapped Um­bridge, glanc­ing down. “Oh yes – an old fam­ily heir­loom,” she said, pat­ting the lock­et ly­ing on her large bo­som. “The S stands for Sel­wyn…. I am re­lat­ed to the Sel­wyns…. In­deed, there are few pure-​blood fam­ilies to whom I am not re­lat­ed. …A pity,” she con­tin­ued in a loud­er voice, flick­ing through Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s ques­tion­naire, “that the same can­not be said for you. ‘Par­ents pro­fes­sions: green­gro­cers’.”

Yax­ley laughed jeer­ing­ly. Be­low, the fluffy sil­ver cat pa­trolled up and down, and the de­men­tors stood wait­ing in the cor­ners.

It was Um­bridge’s lie that brought the blood surg­ing in­to Har­ry’s brain and oblit­er­at­ed his sense of cau­tion – that the lock­et she had tak­en as a bribe from a pet­ty crim­inal was be­ing used to bol­ster her own pure-​blood cre­den­tials. He raised his wand, not even trou­bling to keep it con­cealed be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, and said, “Stu­pe­fy!”

There was a flash of red light; Um­bridge crum­pled and her fore­head hit the edge of the balustrade: Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s pa­pers slid off her lap on­to the floor and, down be­low, the prowl­ing sil­ver cat van­ished. Ice-​cold air hit them like an on­com­ing wind: Yax­ley, con­fused, looked around for the source of the trou­ble and saw Har­ry’s dis­em­bod­ied hand and wand point­ing at him. He tried to draw his own wand, but too late: “Stu­pe­fy!”

Yax­ley slid to the ground to lie curled on the floor.

“Har­ry!”

“Hermione, if you think I was go­ing to sit here and let her pre­tend –“

“Har­ry, Mrs. Cat­ter­mole!”

Har­ry whirled around, throw­ing off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak; down be­low, the de­men­tors had moved out of their cor­ners; they were glid­ing to­ward the wom­an chained to the chair: Whether be­cause the Pa­tronus had van­ished or be­cause they sensed that their mas­ters were no longer in con­trol, they seemed to have aban­doned re­straint. Mrs. Cat­ter­mole let out a ter­ri­ble scream of fear as a slimy, scabbed hand grasped her chin and forced her face back.

“EX­PEC­TO PA­TRON­UM!”

The sil­ver stag soared from the tip of Har­ry’s wand and leaped to­ward the de­men­tors, which fell back and melt­ed in­to the dark shad­ows again. The stag’s light, more pow­er­ful and more warm­ing than the cat’s pro­tec­tion, filled the whole dun­geon as it can­tered around the room.

“Get the Hor­crux,” Har­ry told Hermione.

He ran back down the steps, stuff­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak in­to his back, and ap­proached Mrs. Cat­ter­mole.

“You?” she whis­pered, gaz­ing in­to his face. “But – but Reg said you were the one who sub­mit­ted my name for ques­tion­ing!”

“Did I?” mut­tered Har­ry, tug­ging at the chains bind­ing her arms, “Well, I’ve had a change of heart. Diffin­do!” Noth­ing hap­pened. “Hermione, how do I get rid of these chains?” “Wait, I’m try­ing some­thing up here –“

“Hermione, we’re sur­round­ed by de­men­tors!”

“I know that, Har­ry, but if she wakes up and the lock­et’s gone – I need to du­pli­cate it – Gem­inio! There… That should fool her….”

Hermione came run­ning down­stairs.

“Let’s see…. Re­lashio!”

The chains clinked and with­drew in­to the arms of the chair. Mrs. Cat­ter­mole looked just as fright­ened as ev­er be­fore.

“I don’t un­der­stand,” she whis­pered.

“You’re go­ing to leave here with us,” said Har­ry, pulling her to her feet. “Go home, grab your chil­dren, and get out, get out of the coun­try if you’ve got to. Dis­guise your­selves and run. You’ve seen how it is, you won’t get any­thing like a fair hear­ing here.”

“Har­ry,” said Hermione, “how are we go­ing to get out of here with all those de­men­tors out­side the door?”

“Pa­tronus­es,” said Har­ry, point­ing his wand at his own. The stag slowed and walked, still gleam­ing bright­ly, to­ward the door. “As many as we can muster; do yours, Hermione.”

“Ex­pec – Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um,” said Hermione. Noth­ing hap­pened.

“It’s the on­ly spell she ev­er has trou­ble with,” Har­ry told a com­plete­ly be­mused Mrs. Cat­ter­mole. “Bit un­for­tu­nate, re­al­ly… Come on Hermione….”

‘Ex­pec­to pa­tron­um!”

A sil­ver ot­ter burst from the end of Hermione’s wand and swam grace­ful­ly through the air to join the stag.

“C’mon,” said Har­ry, and he led Hermione and Mrs. Cat­ter­mole to the door.

When the Pa­tronus­es glid­ed out of the dun­geon there were cries of shock from the peo­ple wait­ing out­side. Har­ry looked around; the de­men­tors were falling back on both sides of them, meld­ing in­to the dark­ness, scat­ter­ing be­fore the sil­ver crea­tures.

“It’s been de­cid­ed that you should all go home and go in­to hid­ing with your fam­ilies,” Har­ry told the wait­ing Mug­gle-​born, who were daz­zled by the light of the Pa­tronus­es and still cow­er­ing slight­ly. “Go abroad if you can. Just get well away from the Min­istry. That’s the – er – new of­fi­cial po­si­tion. Now, if you’ll just fol­low the Pa­tronus­es, you’ll be able to leave the Atri­um.”

They man­aged to get up the stone stops with­out be­ing in­ter­cept­ed, but as they ap­proached the lifts Har­ry start­ed to have mis­giv­ings. If they emerged in­to the Atri­um with a sil­ver stag, and ot­ter soar­ing along­side it, and twen­ty or so peo­ple, half of them ac­cused Mug­gle-​borns, he could not help feel­ing that they would at­tract un­want­ed at­ten­tion. He had just reached this un­wel­come con­clu­sion when the lift clanged to a halt in front of them.

“Reg!” screamed Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, and she threw her­self in­to Ron’s arms. “Run­corn let me out, he at­tacked Um­bridge and Yax­ley, and he’s told all of us to leave the coun­try. I think we’d bet­ter do it, Reg, I re­al­ly do, let’s hur­ry home and fetch the chil­dren and – why are you so wet?”

“Wa­ter,” mut­tered Ron, dis­en­gag­ing him­self. “Har­ry, they know there are in­trud­ers in­side the Min­istry, some­thing about a hole in Um­bridge’s of­fice door. I reck­on we’ve got five min­utes if that –“

Hermione’s Pa­tronus van­ished with a pop as she turned a hor­ror struck face to Har­ry.

“Har­ry, if we’re trapped here – !”

“We won’t be if we move fast,” said Har­ry. He ad­dressed the silent group be­hind them, who were all gaw­ping at him.

“Who’s got wands?”

About half of them raised their hands.

“Okay, all of you who haven’t got wands need to at­tach your­self to some­body who has. We’ll need to be fast be­fore they stop us. Come on.”

They man­aged to cram them­selves in­to two lifts. Har­ry’s Pa­tronus stood sen­tinel be­fore the gold­en grilles as they shut and the lifts be­gan to rise.

“Lev­el eight,” said the witch’s cool voice, “Atri­um.”

Har­ry knew at once that they were in trou­ble. The Atri­um was full of peo­ple mov­ing from fire­place to fire­place, seal­ing them off.

“Har­ry!” squeaked Hermione. “What are we go­ing to – ?”

“STOP!” Har­ry thun­dered, and the pow­er­ful voice of Run­corn echoed through the Atri­um: The wiz­ards seal­ing the fire­places froze. “Fol­low me,” he whis­pered to the group of ter­ri­fied Mug­gle-​borns, who moved for­ward in a hud­dle, shep­herd­ed by Ron and Hermione.

“What’s up, Al­bert?” said the same bald­ing wiz­ard who had fol­lowed Har­ry out of the fire­place ear­li­er. He looked ner­vous.

“This lot need to leave be­fore you seal the ex­its,” said Har­ry with all the au­thor­ity he could muster.

The group of wiz­ards in front of him looked at one an­oth­er.

“We’ve been told to seal all ex­its and not let any­one –“

“Are you con­tra­dict­ing me?” Har­ry blus­tered. “Would you like me to have your fam­ily tree ex­am­ined, like I had Dirk Cress­well’s?”

“Sor­ry!” gasped the bald­ing wiz­ard, back­ing away. “I didn’t mean noth­ing, Al­bert, but I thought… I thought they were in for ques­tion­ing and…”

“Their blood is pure,” said Har­ry, and his deep voice echoed im­pres­sive­ly through the hall. “Pur­er than many of yours, I dare­say. Off you go,” he boomed to the Mug­gle-​borns, who scur­ried for­ward in­to the fire­places and be­gan to van­ish in pairs. The Min­istry wiz­ards hung back, some look­ing con­fused, oth­ers scared and fear­ful. Then:

“Mary!”

Mrs. Cat­ter­mole looked over her shoul­der. The re­al Reg Cat­ter­mole, no longer vom­it­ing but pale and wan, had just come run­ning out of a lift.

“R- Reg?”

She looked from her hus­band to Ron, who swore loud­ly.

The bald­ing wiz­ard gaped, his head turn­ing lu­di­crous­ly from one Reg Cat­ter­mole to the oth­er.

“Hey – what’s go­ing on? What is this?”

“Seal the ex­it! SEAL IT!”

Yax­ley had burst out of an­oth­er lift and was run­ning to­ward the group be­side the fire­places, in­to which all of the Mug­gle-​borns but Mrs. Cat­ter­mole had now van­ished. As the bald­ing wiz­ard lift­ed his wand, Har­ry raised an enor­mous fist and punched him, send­ing him fly­ing through the air.

“He’s been help­ing Mug­gle-​borns es­cape, Yax­ley!” Har­ry shout­ed.

The bald­ing wiz­ard’s col­leagues set up and up­roar, un­der cov­er of which Ron grabbed Mrs. Cat­ter­mole, pulled her in­to the still-​open fire­place, and dis­ap­peared. Con­fused, Yax­ley looked from Har­ry to the punched wiz­ard, while the re­al Reg Cat­ter­mole screamed, “My wife! Who was that with my wife? What’s go­ing on?”

Har­ry saw Yax­ley’s head turn, saw an inkling of truth dawn on that brutish face.

“Come on!” Har­ry shout­ed at Hermione; he seized her hand and they jumped in­to the fire­place to­geth­er as Yax­ley’s curse sailed over Har­ry’s head. They spun for a few sec­onds be­fore shoot­ing up out of a toi­let in­to a cu­bi­cle. Har­ry flung open the door: Ron was stand­ing there be­side the sinks, still wrestling with Mrs. Cat­ter­mole.

“Reg, I don’t un­der­stand –“

“Let go, I’m not your hus­band, you’ve got to go home!”

There was a noise in the cu­bi­cle be­hind them; Har­ry looked around; Yax­ley had just ap­peared.

“LET’S GO!” Har­ry yelled. He seized Hermione by the hand and Ron by the arm and turned on the stop.

Dark­ness en­gulfed them, along with the sen­sa­tion of com­press­ing hands, but some­thing was wrong…. Hermione’s hand seemed to be slid­ing out of his grip….

He won­dered whether he was go­ing to suf­fo­cate; he could not breathe or see and the on­ly sol­id things in the world were Ron’s arm and Hermione’s fin­gers, which were slow­ly slip­ping away….

And then he saw the door to num­ber twelve, Grim­mauld Place , with its ser­pent door knock­er, but be­fore he could draw breath, there was a scream and a flash of pur­ple light: Hermione’s hand was sud­den­ly vice­like up­on his and ev­ery­thing went dark again.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER FOURTEEN


THE THIREF



Har­ry opened his eyes and was daz­zled by gold and green; he had no idea what had hap­pened, he on­ly knew that he was ly­ing on what seemed to be leaves and twigs. Strug­gling to draw breath in­to lungs that felt flat­tened, he blinked and re­al­ized that the gaudy glare was sun­light stream­ing through a canopy of leaves far above him. Then an ob­ject twitched close to his face. He pushed him­self on­to his hands and knees, ready to face some small, fierce crea­ture, but saw that the ob­ject was Ron’s foot. Look­ing around, Har­ry saw that they and Hermione were ly­ing on a for­est floor, ap­par­ent­ly alone.

Har­ry’s first thought was of the For­bid­den For­est , and for a mo­ment, even though he knew how fool­ish and dan­ger­ous it would be for them to ap­pear in the grounds of Hog­warts, his heart leapt at the thought of sneak­ing through the trees to Ha­grid’s hut. How­ev­er, in the few mo­ments it took for Ron to give a low groan and Har­ry to start crawl­ing to­ward him, he re­al­ized that this was not the For­bid­den For­est; The trees looked younger, they were more wide­ly spaced, the ground clear­er.

He met Hermione, al­so on her hands and knees, at Ron’s head. The mo­ment his eyes fell up­on Ron, all oth­er con­cerns fled Har­ry’s mind, for blood drenched the whole of Ron’s left side and his face stood out, gray­ish-​white, against the leaf-​strewn earth. The Polyjuice Po­tion was wear­ing off now: Ron was halfway be­tween Cat­ter­mole and him­self in ap­pear­ance, his hair turn­ing red­der and red­der as his face drained of the lit­tle col­or it had left.

“What’s hap­pened to him?”

“Splinched,” said Hermione, her fin­gers al­ready busy at Ron’s sleeve, where the blood was wettest and dark­est.

Har­ry watched, hor­ri­fied, as she tore open Ron’s short. He had al­ways thought of Splinch­ing as some­thing com­ical, but this . . . His in­sides crawled un­pleas­ant­ly as Hermione laid bare Ron’s up­per arm, where a great chunk of flesh was miss­ing, scooped clean­ly away as though by a knife.

“Har­ry, quick­ly, in my bag, there’s a small bot­tle la­beled ‘Essence of Dit­tany’– “

“Bag – right –“

Har­ry sped to the place where Hermione had land­ed, seized the tiny bead­ed bag, and thrust his hand in­side it. At once, ob­ject af­ter ob­ject be­gan pre­sent­ing it­self to his touch: He felt the leather spines of books, wool­ly sleeves of jumpers, heels of shoes –

“Quick­ly!”

He grabbed his wand from the ground and point­ed it in­to the depths of the mag­ical bag.

“Ac­cio Dit­tany!”

A small brown bot­tle zoomed out of the bag; he caught it and has­tened back to Hermione and Ron, whose eyes were now half-​closed, strips of white eye­ball all that were vis­ible be­tween his lids.

“He’s faint­ed,” said Hermione, who was al­so rather pale; she no longer looked like Mafal­da, though her hair was still gray in places. “Un­stop­per it for me, Har­ry, my hands are shak­ing.”

Har­ry wrenched the stop­per off the lit­tle bot­tle, Hermione took it and poured three drops of the po­tion on­to the bleed­ing wound. Green­ish smoke bil­lowed up­ward and when it had cleared, Har­ry saw that the bleed­ing had stopped. The wound now looked sev­er­al days old; new skin stretched over what had just been open flesh.

“Wow,” said Har­ry.

“It’s all I feel safe do­ing,” said Hermione shak­ily. “There are spells that would put him com­plete­ly right, but I daren’t try in case I do them wrong and cause more dam­age. . . . He’s lost so much blood al­ready. . . .”

“How did he get hurt? I mean” – Har­ry shook his head, try­ing to clear it, to make sense of what­ev­er had just tak­en place – “why are we here? I thought we were go­ing back to Grim­mauld Place ?”

Hermione took a deep breath. She looked close to tears.

“Har­ry, I don’t think we’re go­ing to be able to go back there.”

“What d’you – ?”

“As we Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, Yax­ley caught hold of me and I couldn’t get rid of him, he was too strong, and he was still hold­ing on when we ar­rived at Grim­mauld Place, and then – well, I think he must have seen the door, and thought we were stop­ping there, so he slack­ened his grip and I man­aged to sake him off and I brought us here in­stead!”

“But then, where’s he? Hang on. . . . You don’t mean he’s at Grim­mauld Place ? He can’t get in there?”

Her eyes sparkled with un­shed tears as she nod­ded.

“Har­ry, I think he can. I – I forced him to let go with a Re­vul­sion Jinx, but I’d al­ready tak­en him in­side the Fi­delius Charm’s pro­tec­tion. Since Dum­ble­dore died, we’re Se­cret-​Keep­ers, so I’ve giv­en him the se­cret, haven’t I?”

There was no pre­tend­ing; Har­ry was sure she was right. It was a se­ri­ous blow. If Yax­ley could now get in­side the house, there was no way that they could re­turn. Even now, he could be bring­ing oth­er Death Eaters in there by Ap­pari­tion. Gloomy and op­pres­sive though the house was, it had been their one safe refuge; even, now that Kreach­er was so much hap­pi­er and friendli­er, a kind of home. With a twinge of re­gret that had noth­ing to do with food, Har­ry imag­ined the house-​elf busy­ing him­self over the steak-​and-​kid­ney pie that Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione would nev­er eat.

“Har­ry, I’m sor­ry, I’m so sor­ry!”

“Don’t be stupid, it wasn’t your fault! If any­thing, it was mine. . . .”

Har­ry put his hand in his pock­et and drew out Mad-​Eye’s eye. Hermione re­coiled, look­ing hor­ri­fied.

“Um­bridge had stuck it to her of­fice door, to spy on peo­ple. I couldn’t leave it there . . . but that’s how they knew there were in­trud­ers.”

Be­fore Hermione could an­swer, Ron groaned and opened his eyes. He was still gray and his face glis­tened with sweat.

“How d’you feel?” Hermione whis­pered.

“Lousy,” croaked Ron, winc­ing as he felt his in­jured arm. “Where are we?”

“In the woods where they held the Quid­ditch World Cup,” said Hermione. “I want­ed some­where en­closed, un­der­cov­er, and this was –“

“– the first place you thought of,” Har­ry fin­ished for her, glanc­ing around at the ap­par­ent­ly de­sert­ed glade. He could not help re­mem­ber­ing what had hap­pened the last time they had Ap­pa­rat­ed to the first place Hermione had thought of – how Death Eaters had found them with­in min­utes. Had it been Legili­men­cy? Did Volde­mort or his hench­men know, even now, where Hermione had tak­en them?

“D’you reck­on we should move on?” Ron asked Har­ry, and Har­ry could tell by the look on Ron’s face that he was think­ing the same.

“I dun­no.” Ron still looked pale and clam­my. He had made no at­tempt to sit up and it looked as though he was too weak to do so. The prospect of mov­ing him was daunt­ing.

“Let’s stay here for now,” Har­ry said.

Look­ing re­lieved, Hermione sprang to her feet.

“Where are you go­ing?” asked Ron.

“If we’re stay­ing, we should put some pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments around the place,” she replied, and rais­ing her wand, she be­gan to walk in a wide cir­cle around Har­ry and Ron, mur­mur­ing in­can­ta­tions as she went. Har­ry saw lit­tle dis­tur­bances in the sur­round­ing air: It was as if Hermione had cast a heat haze up­on their clear­ing.

“Salvio Hex­ia . . . Pro­tego To­talum . . . Re­pel­lo Mug­gle­tum . . . Muf­flia­to . . . You could get out the tent, Har­ry. . . .”

“Tent?”

“In the bag!”

“In the . . . of course,” said Har­ry.

He did not both­er to grope in­side it this time, but used an­oth­er Sum­mon­ing Charm. The tent emerged in a lumpy mass of can­vas, ropes, and poles. Har­ry rec­og­nized it, part­ly be­cause of the smell of cats, as the same tent in which they had slept on the night of the Quid­ditch World Cup.

“I thought this be­longed to that bloke Perkins at the Min­istry?” he asked, start­ing to dis­en­tan­gle the pent pegs.

“Ap­par­ent­ly he didn’t want it back, his lum­ba­go’s so bad,” said Hermione, now per­form­ing com­pli­cat­ed fig­ure-​of-​eight move­ments with her wand. “so Ron’s dad said I could bor­row it. Erec­to!” she added, point­ing her wand at the mis­shapen can­vas, which in one flu­id mo­tion rose in­to the air and set­tled, ful­ly con­struct­ed, on­to the ground be­fore Har­ry, out of whose star­tled hands a tent peg soared, to land with a fi­nal thud at the end of a guy rope.

“Cave In­im­icum,” Hermione fin­ished with a sky­ward flour­ish. “That’s as much as I can do. At the very least, we should know they’re com­ing; I can’t guar­an­tee it will keep out Vol –“

“Don’t say the name!” Ron cut across her, his voice harsh.

Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er.

“I’m sor­ry,” Ron said, moan­ing a lit­tle as he raised him­self to look at them, “but it feels like a – a jinx or some­thing. Can’t we call him You-​Know-​Who – please?”

“Dum­ble­dore said fear of a name –“ be­gan Har­ry.

“In case you hadn’t no­ticed, mate, call­ing You-​Know-​Who by his name didn’t do Dum­ble­dore much good in the end,” Ron snapped back. “Just – just show You-​Know-​Who some re­spect, will you?”

“Re­spect?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, but Hermione shot him a warn­ing look; ap­par­ent­ly he was not to ar­gue with Ron while the lat­ter was in such a weak­ened con­di­tion.

Har­ry and Hermione half car­ried, half dragged Ron through the en­trance of the tent. The in­te­ri­or was ex­act­ly as Har­ry re­mem­bered it; a small flat, com­plete with bath­room and tiny kitchen. He shoved aside an old arm­chair and low­ered Ron care­ful­ly on­to the low­er berth of a bunk bed. Even this very short jour­ney had turned Ron whiter still, and once they had set­tled him on the mat­tress he closed his eyes again and did not speak for a while.

“I’ll make some tea,” said Hermione breath­less­ly, pulling ket­tle and mugs from the depths of her bag and head­ing to­ward the kitchen.

Har­ry found the hot drink as wel­come as the firewhisky had been on the night that Mad-​Eye had died; it seemed to burn away a lit­tle of the fear flut­ter­ing in his chest. Af­ter a minute or two, Ron broke the si­lence.

“What d’you reck­on hap­pened to the Cat­ter­moles?”

“With any luck, they’ll have got away,” said Hermione, clutch­ing her hot mug for com­fort. “As long as Mr. Cat­ter­mole had his wits about him, he’ll have trans­port­ed Mrs. Cat­ter­mole by Side-​Along-​Ap­pari­tion and they’ll be flee­ing the coun­try right now with their chil­dren. That’s what Har­ry told her to do.”

“Blimey, I hope they es­caped,” said Ron, lean­ing back on his pil­lows. The tea seemed to be do­ing him good; a lit­tle of his col­or had re­turned. “I didn’t get the feel­ing Reg Cat­ter­mole was all that quick-​wit­ted, though, the way ev­ery­one was talk­ing to me when I was him. God, I hope they made it. . . . If they both end up in Azk­aban be­cause of us . . .”

Har­ry looked over at Hermione and the ques­tion he had been about to ask – about whether Mrs. Cat­ter­mole’s lack of a wand would pre­vent her Ap­pa­rat­ing along­side her hus­band – died in his throat. Hermione was watch­ing Ron fret over the fate of the Cat­ter­moles, and there was such ten­der­ness in her ex­pres­sion that Har­ry felt al­most as if he had sur­prised her in the act of kiss­ing him.

“So, have you got it?” Har­ry asked her, part­ly to re­mind her that he was there.

“Got – got what?” she said with a lit­tle start.

“What did we just go through all that for? The lock­et! Where’s the lock­et?”

“You got it?” shout­ed Ron, rais­ing him­self a lit­tle high­er on his pil­lows. “No one tells me any­thing! Blimey, you could have men­tioned it!” “Well, we were run­ning for our lives from the Death Eaters, weren’t we?” said Hermione. “Here.”

And she pulled the lock­et out of the pock­et of her robes and hand­ed it to Ron.

It was as large as a chick­en’s egg. An or­nate let­ter S, in­laid with many small green stones, glint­ed dul­ly in the dif­fused light shin­ing through the tent’s can­vas roof.

“There isn’t any chance some­one’s de­stroyed it since Kreach­er had it?” asked Ron hope­ful­ly. “I mean, are we sure it’s still a Hor­crux?”

“I think so,” said Hermione, tak­ing it back from him and look­ing at it close­ly. “There’d be some sign of dam­age if it had been mag­ical­ly de­stroyed.”

She passed it to Har­ry, who turned it over in his fin­gers. The thing looked per­fect, pris­tine. He re­mem­bered the man­gled re­mains of the di­ary, and how the stone in the Hor­crux ring had been cracked open when Dum­ble­dore de­stroyed it.

“I reck­on Kreach­er’s right,” said Har­ry. “We’re go­ing to have to work out how to open this thing be­fore we can de­stroy it.”

Sud­den aware­ness of what he was hold­ing, of what lived be­hind the lit­tle gold­en doors, hit Har­ry as he spoke. Even af­ter all their ef­forts to find it, he felt a vi­olent urge to fling the lock­et from him. Mas­ter­ing him­self again, he tried to prise the lock­et apart with his fin­gers, then at­tempt­ed the charm Hermione had used to open Reg­ulus’s bed­room door. Nei­ther worked. He hand­ed the lock­et back to Ron and Hermione, each of whom did their best, but were no more suc­cess­ful at open­ing it than he had been.

“Can you feel it, though?” Ron asked in a hushed voice, as he held it tight in his clenched fist.

“What d’you mean?” Ron passed the Hor­crux to Har­ry. Af­ter a mo­ment or two, Har­ry thought he knew what Ron meant. Was it his own blood puls­ing through his veins that he could feel, or was it some­thing beat­ing in­side the lock­et, like a tiny met­al heart?

“What are we go­ing to do with it?” Hermione asked.

“Keep it safe till we work out how to de­stroy it.” Har­ry replied, and, lit­tle though he want­ed to, he hung the chain around his own neck, drop­ping the lock­et out of sight be­neath his robes, where it rest­ed against his chest be­side the pouch Ha­grid had giv­en him.

“I think we should take it in turns to keep watch out­side the tent,” he added to Hermione, stand­ing up and stretch­ing. “And we’ll need to think about some food as well. You stay there,” he added sharply, as Ron at­tempt­ed to sit up and turned a nasty shade of green.

With the Sneako­scope Hermione had giv­en Har­ry for his birth­day set care­ful­ly up­on the ta­ble in the tent, Har­ry and Hermione spent the rest of the day shar­ing the role of look­out. How­ev­er, the Sneako­scope re­mained silent and still up­on its point all day, and whether be­cause of the pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments and Mug­gle-​re­pelling charms Hermione had spread around them, or be­cause peo­ple rarely ven­tured this way, their patch of wood re­mained de­sert­ed, apart from oc­ca­sion­al birds and squir­rels. Evening brought no change; Har­ry lit his wand as he swapped places with Hermione at ten o’clock, and looked out up­on a de­sert­ed scene, not­ing the bats flut­ter­ing high above him across the sin­gle patch of star­ry sky vis­ible from their pro­tect­ed clear­ing.

He felt hun­gry now, and a lit­tle light-​head­ed. Hermione had not packed any food in her mag­ical bag, as she had as­sumed that they would be re­turn­ing to Grim­mauld Place that night, so they had had noth­ing to eat ex­cept some wild mush­rooms that Hermione had col­lect­ed from amongst the near­est trees and stewed in a Bil­ly­can. Af­ter a cou­ple of mouth­fuls Ron had pushed his por­tion away, look­ing queasy; Har­ry had on­ly per­se­vered so as to not hurt Hermione’s feel­ings.

The sur­round­ing si­lence was bro­ken by odd rustlings and what sound­ed like crack­ings of twigs: Har­ry thought that they were caused by an­imals rather than peo­ple, yet he kept his wand held tight at the ready. His in­sides, al­ready un­com­fort­able due to their in­ad­equate help­ing of rub­bery mush­rooms, tin­gled with un­ease.

He had though that he would feel elat­ed if they man­aged to steal back the Hor­crux, but some­how he did not; all he felt as he sat look­ing out at the dark­ness, of which his wand lit on­ly a tiny part, was wor­ry about what would hap­pen next. It was as though he had been hurtling to­ward this point for weeks, months, maybe even years, but how he had come to an abrupt halt, run out of road.

There were oth­er Hor­crux­es out there some­where, but he did not have the faintest idea where they could be. He did not even know what all of them were. Mean­while he was at a loss to know how to de­stroy the on­ly one that they had found, the Hor­crux that cur­rent­ly lay against the bare flesh of his chest. Cu­ri­ous­ly, it had not tak­en heat from his body, but lay so cold against his skin it might just have emerged from icy wa­ter. From time to time Har­ry thought, or per­haps imag­ined, that he could feel the tiny heart­beat tick­ing ir­reg­ular­ly along­side his own. Name­less fore­bod­ings crept up­on him as he sat there in the dark. He tried to re­sist them, push them away, yet they came at him re­lent­less­ly. Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives. Ron and Hermione, now talk­ing soft­ly be­hind him in the tent, could walk away if they want­ed to: He could not. And it seemed to Har­ry as he sat there try­ing to mas­ter his own fear and ex­haus­tion, that the Hor­crux against his chest was tick­ing away the time he had left. . . . Stupid idea, he told him­self, don’t think that. . . .

His scar was start­ing to prick­le again. He was afraid that he was mak­ing it hap­pen by hav­ing these thoughts, and tried to di­rect them in­to an­oth­er chan­nel. He thought of poor Kreach­er, who had ex­pect­ed them home and had re­ceived Yax­ley in­stead. Would the elf keep silent or would he tell the Death Eater ev­ery­thing he knew? Har­ry want­ed to be­lieve that Kreach­er had changed to­wards him in the past month, that he would be loy­al now, but who knew what would hap­pen? What if the Death Eaters tor­tured the elf? Sick im­ages swarmed in­to Har­ry’s head and he tried to push these away too, for there was noth­ing he could do for Kreach­er: He and Hermione had al­ready de­cid­ed against try­ing to sum­mon him; what if some­one from the Min­istry came too? They could not count on elfish Ap­pari­tion be­ing free from the same flaw that had tak­en Yax­ley to Grim­mauld Place on the hem of Hermione’s sleeve.

Har­ry’s scar was burn­ing now. He thought that there was so much they did not know: Lupin had been right about mag­ic they had nev­er en­coun­tered or imag­ined. Why hadn’t Dum­ble­dore ex­plained more? Had he thought that there would be time; that he would live for years, for cen­turies per­haps, like his friend Nico­las Flamel? If so, he had been wrong. . . . Snape had seen to that. . . . Snape, the sleep­ing snake, who had struck at the top of the tow­er . . .

And Dum­ble­dore had fall­en . . . fall­en . . .

“Give it to me, Gre­gorovitch.”

Har­ry’s voice was high, clear, and cold, his wand held in front of him by a long-​fin­gered white hand. The man at whom he was point­ing was sus­pend­ed up­side down in midair, though there were no ropes hold­ing him; he swung there, in­vis­ibly and eeri­ly bound, his limbs wrapped about him, his ter­ri­fied face, on a lev­el with Har­ry’s rud­dy due to the blood that had rushed to his head. He had pure-​white hair and a thick, bushy beard: a trussed-​up Fa­ther Christ­mas.

“I have it not, I have it no more! It was, many years ago, stolen from me!”

“Do not lie to Lord Volde­mort, Gre­gorovitch. He knows. . . . He al­ways knows.” The hang­ing man’s pupils were wide, di­lat­ed with fear, and they seemed to swell, big­ger and big­ger un­til their black­ness swal­lowed Har­ry whole –

And how Har­ry was hur­ry­ing along a dark cor­ri­dor in stout lit­tle Gre­gorovitch’s wake as he held a lantern aloft: Gre­gorovitch burst in­to the room at the end of the pas­sage and his lantern il­lu­mi­nat­ed what looked like a work­shop; wood shav­ings and gold gleamed in the swing­ing pool of light, and there on the win­dow ledge sat perched, like a gi­ant bird, a young man with gold­en hair. In the split sec­ond that the lantern’s light il­lu­mi­nat­ed him, Har­ry saw the de­light up­on his hand­some face, then the in­trud­er shot a Stun­ning Spell from his wand and jumped neat­ly back­ward out of the win­dow with a crow of laugh­ter.

And Har­ry was hurtling back out of those wide, tun­nel­like pupils and Gre­gorovitch’s face was strick­en with ter­ror.

“Who was the thief, Gre­gorovitch?” said the high cold voice.

“I do not know, I nev­er knew, a young man – no – please – PLEASE!”

A scream that went on and on and then a burst of green light –

“Har­ry!”

He opened his eyes, pant­ing, his fore­head throb­bing. He had passed out against the side of the tent, had slid side­ways down the can­vas, and was sprawled on the ground. He looked up at Hermione, whose bushy hair ob­scured the tiny patch of sky vis­ible through the dark branch­es high above them.

“Dream,” he said, sit­ting up quick­ly and at­tempt­ing to meet Hermione’s glow­er with a look of in­no­cence. “Must’ve dozed off, sor­ry.”

“I know it was your scar! I can tell by the look on your face! You were look­ing in­to Vol –“

“Don’t say his name!” came Ron’s an­gry voice from the depths of the tent.

“Fine,” re­tort­ed Hermione, “You-​Know-​Who’s mind, then!” “I didn’t mean it to hap­pen!” Har­ry said. “It was a dream! Can you con­trol what you dream about, Hermione?”

“If you just learned to ap­ply Oc­clu­men­cy –“

But Har­ry was not in­ter­est­ed in be­ing told off; he want­ed to dis­cuss what he had just seen.

“He’s found Gre­gorovitch, Hermione, and I think he’s killed him, but be­fore he killed him he read Gre­gorovitch’s mind and I saw –“

“I think I’d bet­ter take over the watch if you’re so tired you’re falling sleep,” said Hermione cold­ly.

“I can fin­ish the watch!”

“No, you’re ob­vi­ous­ly ex­haust­ed. Go and lie down.”

She dropped down in the mouth of the tent, look­ing stub­born. An­gry, but wish­ing to avoid a row, Har­ry ducked back in­side.

Ron’s still-​pale face was pok­ing out from the low­er bunk; Har­ry climbed in­to the one above him, lay down, and looked up at the dark can­vas ceil­ing. Af­ter sev­er­al mo­ments, Ron spoke in a voice so low that it would not car­ry to Hermione, hud­dle in the en­trance.

“What’s You-​Know-​Who do­ing?”

Har­ry screwed up his eyes in the ef­fort to re­mem­ber ev­ery de­tail, then whis­pered in­to the dark­ness.

“He found Gre­gorovitch. He had him tied up, he was tor­tur­ing him.” “How’s Gre­gorovitch sup­posed to make him a new wand if he’s tied up?”

“I dun­no. . . . It’s weird, isn’t it?”

Har­ry closed his eyes, think­ing of all that he had seen and heard. The more he re­called, the less sense it made. . . . Volde­mort had said noth­ing about Har­ry’s wand, noth­ing about the twin cores, noth­ing about Gre­gorovitch mak­ing a new and more pow­er­ful wand to beat Har­ry’s. . . .

“He want­ed some­thing from Gre­gorovitch,” Har­ry said, eyes still closed tight. “He asked him to hand it over, but Gre­gorovitch said it had been stolen from him . . . and then . . . then . . .”

He re­mem­bered how he, as Volde­mort, had seemed to hur­tle through Gre­gorovitch’s eyes, in­to his mem­ories. . . .

“He read Gre­gorovitch’s mind, and I saw this young bloke perched on a win­dowsill, and he fired a curse at Gre­gorovitch and jumped out of sight. He stole it, he stole what­ev­er You-​Know-​Who’s af­ter. And I . . . I think I’ve seen him some­where. . . .”

Har­ry wished he could have an­oth­er glimpse of the laugh­ing boy’s face. The theft had hap­pened many years ago, ac­cord­ing to Gre­gorovitch. Why did the young thief look fa­mil­iar?

The nois­es of the sur­round­ing woods were muf­fled in­side the tent; all Har­ry could hear was Ron’s breath­ing. Af­ter a while, Ron whis­pered, “Couldn’t you see what the thief was hold­ing?”

“No . . . it must’ve been some­thing small.”

“Har­ry?”

The wood­en slats of Ron’s bunk creaked as he repo­si­tioned him­self in bed.

“Har­ry, you don’t reck­on You-​Know-​Who’s af­ter some­thing else to turn in­to a Hor­crux?”

“I don’t know,” said Har­ry slow­ly. “Maybe. But wouldn’t it be dan­ger­ous for him to make an­oth­er one? Didn’t Hermione say he had pushed his soul to the lim­it al­ready?”

“Yeah, but maybe he doesn’t know that.”

“Yeah . . .maybe,” said Har­ry.

He had been sure that Volde­mort had been look­ing for a way around the prob­lem of the twin cores, sure that Volde­mort sought a so­lu­tion from the old wand­mak­er . . . and yet he had killed him, ap­par­ent­ly with­out ask­ing him a sin­gle ques­tion about wand­lore.

What was Volde­mort try­ing to find? Why, with the Min­istry of Mag­ic and the Wiz­ard­ing world at his feet, was he far away, in­tent on the pur­suit of an ob­ject that Gre­gorovitch had once owned, and which had been stolen by the un­known thief?

Har­ry could still see the blond-​haired youth’s face; it was mer­ry, wild; there was a Fred and George-​ish air of tri­umphant trick­ery about him. He had soared from the win­dowsill like a bird, and Har­ry had seen him be­fore, but he could not think where. . . . With Gre­gorovitch dead, it was the mer­ry-​faced thief who was in dan­ger now, and it was on him that Har­ry’s thoughts dwelled, as Ron’s snores be­gan to rum­ble from the low­er bunk and as he him­self drift­ed slow­ly in­to sleep once more.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER FIFTEEN


THE GOB­LIN’S RE­VENGE



Ear­ly next morn­ing, be­fore the oth­er two were awake, Har­ry left the tent to search the woods around them for the old­est, most gnarled, and re­silient-​look­ing tree he could find. There in its shad­ows he buried Mad-​Eye Moody's eye and marked the spot by goug­ing a small cross in the bark with his wand. It was not much, but Har­ry felt that Mad-​Eye would have much pre­ferred this to be­ing stuck on Do­lores Um­bridge's door. Then he re­turned to the tent to wait for the oth­ers to wake, and dis­cuss what they were go­ing to do next.

Har­ry and Hermione felt that it was best not to stay any­where too long, and Ron agreed, wit the sole pro­vi­so that their next move took them with­in reach of a ba­con sand­wich. Hermione there­fore re­moved the en­chant­ments she had placed around the clear­ing, while Har­ry and Ron oblit­er­at­ed all the marks and im­pres­sions on the ground that might show they had camped there. Then they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed to the out­skirts of a small mar­ket town.

Once they had pitched the tent in the shel­ter of a small copse of trees and sur­round­ed it with fresh­ly cast de­fen­sive en­chant­ments. Har­ry ven­tured out un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak to find sus­te­nance. This, how­ev­er, did not go as planned. He had bare­ly en­tered the town when an un­nat­ural chill, a de­scend­ing mist, and a sud­den dark­en­ing of the skies made him freeze where he stood.

“But you can make a bril­liant Pa­tronus!” protest­ed Ron, when Har­ry ar­rived back at the tent emp­ty hand­ed, out of breath, and mouthing the sin­gle word, de­men­tors.

“I couldn't . . . make one.” he pant­ed, clutch­ing the stitch in his side. “Wouldn't . . . come.”

Their ex­pres­sions of con­ster­na­tion and dis­ap­point­ment made Har­ry feel ashamed. It had been a night­mar­ish ex­pe­ri­ence, see­ing the de­men­tors glid­ing out of the must in the dis­tance and re­al­iz­ing, as the par­alyz­ing cold choked his lungs and a dis­tant scream­ing filled his ears, that he was not go­ing to be able to pro­tect him­self. It had tak­en all Har­ry's willpow­er to up­root him­self from the spot and run, leav­ing the eye­less de­men­tors to glide amongst the Mug­gles who might not be able to see them, but would as­sured­ly feel the de­spair they cast wher­ev­er they went.

“So we still haven't got any food.”

“Shut up, Ron,” snapped Hermione. “Har­ry, what hap­pened? Why do you think you couldn't make your Pa­tronus? You man­aged per­fect­ly yes­ter­day!”

“I don't know.”

He sat low in one of Perkins's old arm­chairs, feel­ing more hu­mil­iat­ed by the mo­ment. He was afraid that some­thing had gone wrong in­side him. Yes­ter­day seemed a long time ago: To­day me might have been thir­teen years old again, the on­ly one who col­lapsed on the Hog­warts Ex­press.

Ron kicked a chair leg.

“What?” he snarled at Hermione. “I'm starv­ing! All I've had since I bled half to death is a cou­ple of toad­stools!”

“You go and fight your way through the de­men­tors, then,” said Har­ry, stung.

“I would, but my arm's in a sling, in case you hadn't no­ticed!”

“That's con­ve­nient.”

“And what's that sup­posed to — ?”

“Of course!” cried Hermione, clap­ping a hand to her fore­head and startling both of them in­to si­lence. “Har­ry, give me the lock­et! Come on,” she said im­pa­tient­ly, click­ing her fin­gers at him when he did not re­act,“ to Hor­crux, Har­ry, you're still wear­ing it!”

She held out her hands, and Har­ry lift­ed the gold­en chain over his head. The mo­ment it part­ed con­tact with Har­ry's skin he free and odd­ly light. He had not even re­al­ized that he was clam­my or that there was a heavy weight press­ing on his stom­ach un­til both sen­sa­tions lift­ed.

“Bet­ter?” asked Hermione.

“Yeah, loads bet­ter!”

“Har­ry,” she said, crouch­ing down in front of him and us­ing the kind of voice he as­so­ci­at­ed with vis­it­ing the very sick, “you don't think you've been pos­sessed, do you?”

“What? No!” he said de­fen­sive­ly, “I re­mem­ber ev­ery­thing we've done while I've bee wear­ing it. I wouldn't know what I'd done if I'd been pos­sessed, would I? Gin­ny told me there were times when she couldn't re­mem­ber any­thing.”

“Hmm,” said Hermione, look­ing down at the heavy lock­et. “Well, maybe we ought not to wear it. We can just keep it in the tent.”

“We are not leav­ing that Hor­crux ly­ing around,” Har­ry stat­ed firm­ly. “If we lose it, if it gets stolen—”

“Oh, all right, all right,” said Hermione, and she placed it around her own neck and tucked it out of sight down the front of her shirt. “But we'll take turns wear­ing it, so no­body keeps it on too long.”

“Great,” said Ron ir­ri­ta­bly, “and now we've sort­ed that out, can we please get some food?”

“Fine, but we'll go some­where else to find it,” said Hermione with half a glance at Har­ry. “There's no point stay­ing where we know de­men­tors are swoop­ing around.”

In the end they set­tled down for the night in a far flung field be­long­ing to a lone­ly farm, from which they had man­aged to ob­tain eggs and bread.

“It's not steal­ing, is it?” asked Hermione in a trou­bled voice, as they de­voured scram­bled eggs on toast. “Not if I left some mon­ey un­der the chick­en coo?”

Ron rolled his eyes and said, with his cheeks bulging, “Er-​my-​nee, 'oo wor­ry 'oo much. 'Elax!”

And, in­deed, it was much eas­ier to re­lax when they were com­fort­ably well fed. The ar­gu­ment about the de­men­tors was for­got­ten in laugh­ter that night, and Har­ry felt cheer­ful, even hope­ful, as he took the first of the three night watch­es.

This was their first en­counter with the fact that a full stom­ach meant good spir­its, an emp­ty one, bick­er­ing and gloom. Har­ry was least sur­prised by this, be­cause be had suf­fered pe­ri­ods of near star­va­tion at the Durs­leys’. Hermione bore up rea­son­ably well on those nights when they man­aged to scav­enge noth­ing but berries or stale bis­cuits, her tem­per per­haps a lit­tle short­er than usu­al and her si­lences dour. Ron, how­ev­er, had al­ways been used to three de­li­cious meals a day, cour­tesy of his moth­er or of the Hog­warts house-​elves, and hunger made him both un­rea­son­able and iras­ci­ble. When­ev­er lack of food co­in­cid­ed with Ron's turn to wear the Hor­crux, he be­came down­right un­pleas­ant.

“So where next?” was his con­stant re­frain. He did not seem to have any ideas him­self, but ex­pect­ed Har­ry and Hermione to come up with plans while he sat and brood­ed over the low food sup­plies. Ac­cord­ing­ly Har­ry and Hermione spent fruit­less hours try­ing to de­cide where they might find the oth­er Hor­crux­es, and how to de­stroy the one they al­ready got, their con­ver­sa­tions be­com­ing in­creas­ing­ly repet­itive as they got no new in­for­ma­tion.

As Dum­ble­dore had told Har­ry that be be­lieved Volde­mort had hid­den the Hor­crux­es in places im­por­tant to him, they kept recit­ing, in a sort of drea­ry litany, those lo­ca­tions they knew that Volde­mort had lived or vis­it­ed. The or­phan­age where he had been born and raised: Hog­warts, where he had been ed­ucat­ed; Bor­gin and Burks, where he had worked af­ter com­plet­ing school; then Al­ba­nia , where he had spent his years of ex­ile: These formed the ba­sis of their spec­ula­tions.

“Yeah, let's go to Al­ba­nia . Shouldn't take more than an af­ter­noon to search an en­tire coun­try,” said Ron sar­cas­ti­cal­ly.

“There can't be any­thing there. He'd al­ready made five of his Hor­crux­es be­fore he went in­to ex­ile, and Dum­ble­dore was cer­tain the snake is the sixth,” said Hermione. “We know the snake's not in Al­ba­nia , it's usu­al­ly with Vol—”

“Didn't I ask you to stop say that?”

“Fine! The snake is usu­al­ly with You-​Know-​Who—hap­py?”

“Not par­tic­ular­ly.”

“I can't see him hid­ing any­thing at Bor­gin and Burkes.” said Har­ry, who had made this point many times be­fore, but said it again sim­ply to break the nasty si­lence. “Bor­gin and Burke were ex­perts at Dark ob­jects, they would've rec­og­nized a Hor­crux straight­away.”

Ron yawned point­ed­ly. Re­press­ing a strong urge to throw some­thing at him, Har­ry plowed on, “I still reck­on he might have hid­den some­thing at Hog­warts.”

Hermione sighed.

“But Dum­ble­dore would have found it, Har­ry!”

Har­ry re­peat­ed the ar­gu­ment he kept bring­ing out in fa­vor of this the­ory.

“Dum­ble­dore said in front of me that he nev­er as­sumed he knew all of Hog­wart's se­crets. I'm telling you, if there was one place Vol—”

“Oi!”

“YOU-​KNOW-​WHO, then!” Har­ry shout­ed, goad­ed past en­durance. “If there was one place that was re­al­ly im­por­tant to You-​Know-​Who, it was Hog­warts!”

“Oh, come on,” scoffed Ron. “His school?”

“Yeah, his school! It was his first re­al home, the place that meant he was spe­cial: it meant ev­ery­thing to him, and even af­ter he left—”

“This is You-​Know-​Who we're talk­ing about, right? Not you?” in­quired Ron. He was tug­ging at the chain of the Hor­crux around his neck; Har­ry was vis­it­ed by a de­sire to seize it and throt­tle him.

“You told us that You-​Know-​Who asked Dum­ble­dore to give him a job af­ter he left,” said Hermione.

“That's right,” said Har­ry.

“And Dum­ble­dore thought he on­ly want­ed to come back to try and find some­thing, prob­ably an­oth­er founder's ob­ject, to make in­to an­oth­er Hor­crux?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry.

“But he didn’t get the job, did he?” said Hermione. “So he nev­er got the chance to find a founder’s ob­ject there and hide it in the school!”

“Okay, then,” said Har­ry, de­feat­ed. “For­get Hog­warts.”

With­out any oth­er leads, they trav­eled in­to Lon­don and, hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, search for the or­phan­age in which Volde­mort had been raised. Hermione stole in­to a li­brary and dis­cov­ered from their records that the place had been de­mol­ished many years be­fore. They vis­it­ed its site and found a tow­er block of of­fices.

“We could try dig­ging in to foun­da­tions?” Hermione sug­gest­ed half­heart­ed­ly.

“He wouldn’t have hid­den a Hor­crux here,” Har­ry said. He had known it all along. The or­phan­age had been the place Volde­mort had been de­ter­mined to es­cape; he would nev­er have hid­den a part of his soul there. Dum­ble­dore had shown Har­ry that Volde­mort sought grandeur or mys­tique in his hid­ing places; this dis­mal gray cor­ner of Lon­don was as far re­moved as you could imag­ine from Hog­warts of the Min­istry or a build­ing like Gringotts, the Wiz­ard­ing banks, with its gild­ed doors and mar­ble floors.

Even with­out any new idea, they con­tin­ued to move through the coun­try­side, pitch­ing the tent in a dif­fer­ent place each night for se­cu­ri­ty. Ev­ery morn­ing they made sure that they had re­moved all clues to their pres­ence, then set off to find an­oth­er lone­ly and se­clud­ed spot, trav­el­ing by Ap­pari­tion to more woods, to the shad­owy crevices of cliffs, to pur­ple moors, gorse-​cov­ered moun­tain­sides, and once a shel­tered and peb­bly cove. Ev­ery twelve hours or so they passed the Hor­crux be­tween them as though they were play­ing some per­verse, slow-​mo­tion game of pass-​the-​par­cel, where they dread­ed the mu­sic stop­ping be­cause the re­ward was twelve hours of in­creased fear and anx­iety.

Har­ry’s scare kept prick­ling. It hap­pened most of­ten, he no­ticed, when he was wear­ing the Hor­crux. Some­times he could not stop him­self re­act­ing to the pain.

“What? What did you see?” de­mand­ed Ron, when­ev­er he no­ticed Har­ry wince.

“A face,” mut­tered Har­ry, ev­ery time. “The same face. The thief who stole from Gre­gorovitch.”

And Ron would turn away, mak­ing no ef­fort to hide his dis­ap­point­ment. Har­ry knew that Ron was hop­ing to bear news of his fam­ily or the rest of the Or­der of the Phoenix , but af­ter all, he, Har­ry, was not a tele­vi­sion aeri­al; he could on­ly see what Volde­mort was think­ing at the time, not tune in to what­ev­er took his fan­cy. Ap­par­ent­ly Volde­mort was dwelling end­less­ly on the un­known youth with the glee­ful face, whose name and where­abouts, Har­ry felt sure, Volde­mort knew no bet­ter than he did. As Har­ry’s scar con­tin­ued to burn and the mer­ry, blond-​haired boy swam tan­ta­liz­ing­ly in his mem­ory, he learned to sup­press any sign of pain or dis­com­fort, for the oth­er two showed noth­ing but im­pa­tience at the men­tion of the thief. He could not en­tire­ly blame them, when they were so des­per­ate for a lean on the Hor­crux­es.

As the days stretched in­to weeks, Har­ry be­gan to sus­pect that Ron and Hermione were hav­ing con­ver­sa­tions with­out, and about, him. Sev­er­al times they stopped talk­ing abrupt­ly when Har­ry en­tered the tent, and twice he came ac­ci­den­tal­ly up­on them, hud­dled a lit­tle dis­tance away, heads to­geth­er and talk­ing fast; both times they fell silent when they re­al­ized he was ap­proach­ing them and has­tened to ap­pear busy col­lect­ing wood or wa­ter.

Har­ry could not help won­der­ing whether they had on­ly agreed to come on what now felt like a point­less and ram­bling jour­ney be­cause they thought he had some se­cret plan that they would learn in due course. Ton was mak­ing no ef­fort to hide his bad mood, and Har­ry was start­ing to fear that Hermione too was dis­ap­point­ed by his poor lead­er­ship. In des­per­ation he tried to think of fur­ther Hor­crux lo­ca­tions, but the on­ly one that con­tin­ued to oc­cur to him was Hog­warts, and as nei­ther of the oth­ers thought this at all like­ly, he stopped sug­gest­ing it.

Au­tumn rolled over the coun­try­side as they moved through it. They were now pitch­ing the tent on mulches of fall­en leaves. Nat­ural mists joined those cast by the de­men­tors; wind and rain added to their trou­bles. The fact that Hermione was get­ting bet­ter at iden­ti­fy­ing ed­ible fun­gi could not al­to­geth­er com­pen­sate for their con­tin­uing iso­la­tion, the lack of oth­er peo­ple’s com­pa­ny, or their to­tal ig­no­rance of what was go­ing on in the war against Volde­mort.

“My moth­er,” said Ron on night, as they sat in the tent on a river­bank in Wales , “can make good food ap­pear out of thin air.”

He prod­ded mood­ily at the lumps of charred gray fish on his plate. Har­ry glanced au­to­mat­ical­ly at Ron’s neck and saw, as he has ex­pect­ed, the gold­en chain of the Hor­crux glint­ing there. He man­aged to fight down the im­pulse to swear at Ron, whose at­ti­tude would, he knew, im­prove slight­ly when the time came to take off the lock­et.

“Your moth­er can’t pro­duce food out of thin air,” said Hermione. “no one can. Food is the first of the five Prin­ci­pal Ex­cep­tions to Gamp’s Law of El­emen­tal Trans­figu­ra—”

“Oh, speak En­glish, can’t you?” Ron said, pris­ing a fish out from be­tween his teeth.

“It’s im­pos­si­ble to make good food out of noth­ing! You can Sum­mon it if you know where it is, you can trans­form it, you can in­crease the quan­ti­ty if you’ve al­ready got some—”

“Well, don’t both­er in­creas­ing this, it’s dis­gust­ing,” said Ron.

“Har­ry caught the fish and I did my best with it! I no­tice I’m al­ways the one who ends up sort­ing out the food, be­cause I’m a girl, I sup­pose!”

“No, it’s be­cause you’re sup­posed to be the best at mag­ic!” shot back Ron.

Hermione jumped up and bits of roast pike slid off her tin plate on­to the floor.

“You can do the cook­ing to­mor­row, Ron, you can find the in­gre­di­ents and try and charm them in­to some­thing worth eat­ing, and I’ll sit here and pull faces and moan and you can see you—”

“Shut up!,” said Har­ry, leap­ing to his feet and hold­ing up both hands. “Shut up now!”

Hermione looked out­raged.

“How can you side with him, he hard­ly ev­er does the cook—”

“Hermione, be qui­et, I can hear some­one!”

He was lis­ten­ing hard, his hands still raised, warn­ing them not to talk. Then, over the rush and gush of the dark riv­er be­side them, he heard voic­es again. He looked around at the Sneako­scope. It was not mov­ing.

“You cast the Muf­flia­to charm over us, right?” he whis­pered to Hermione.

“I did ev­ery­thing,” she whis­pered back, “Muf­flia­to, Mug­gle-​Re­pelling and Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charms, all of it. They shouldn’t be able to hear of see us, who­ev­er they are.”

Heavy scuff­ing and scrap­ing nois­es, plus the sound of dis­lodged stones and twigs, told them that sev­er­al peo­ple were clam­ber­ing down the steep, wood­ed slope that de­scend­ed to the nar­row bank where they had pitched the tent. They drew their wands, wait­ing. The en­chant­ments they had cast around them­selves ought to be suf­fi­cient, in the near to­tal dark­ness, to shield them from the no­tice of Mug­gles and nor­mal witch­es and wiz­ards. If these were Death Eaters, then per­haps their de­fens­es were about to be test­ed by Dark Mag­ic for the first time.

The voic­es be­came loud­er but no more in­tel­li­gi­ble as the group of men reached the bank. Har­ry es­ti­mat­ed that their own­ers were few­er than twen­ty feet away, but the cas­cad­ing riv­er made it im­pos­si­ble to tell for sure. Hermione snatched up the bead­ed bag and start­ed to rum­mage; af­ter a mo­ment she drew out three Ex­tendible Ears and threw one each to Har­ry and Ron, who hasti­ly in­sert­ed the ends of the flesh-​col­ored strings in­to their ears and fed the oth­er ends out of the tent en­trance.

With­in sec­onds Har­ry heard a weary male voice.

“There ought to be a few salmon in here, or d’you reck­on it’s too ear­ly in the sea­son? Ac­cio Salmon!”

There were sev­er­al dis­tinct splash­es and then the slap­ping sounds of fish against flesh. Some­body grunt­ed ap­pre­cia­tive­ly. Har­ry pressed the Ex­tend­able ear deep­er in­to his own: Over the mur­mur of the riv­er he could make out more voic­es, but they were not speak­ing En­glish or any hu­man lan­guage he had ev­er heard. It was a rough and un­melo­di­ous tongue, a string of rat­tling, gut­tural nois­es, and there seemed to be two speak­ers, one with a slight­ly low­er, slow­er voice than the oth­er.

A fire danced in­to life on the oth­er side of the can­vas, large shad­ows passed be­tween tent and flames. The de­li­cious smell of bak­ing salmon waft­ed tan­ta­liz­ing­ly in their di­rec­tion. Then came the clink­ing of cut­lery on plates, and the first man spoke again.

“Here, Griphook, Gor­nuk.”

Gob­lins! Hermione mouthed at Har­ry, who nod­ded.

“Thank you,” said the gob­lins to­geth­er in En­glish.

“So, you three have been on the run how long?” asked a new, mel­low, and pleas­ant voice; it was vague­ly fa­mil­iar to Har­ry, who pic­tured a round-​bel­lied, cheer­ful-​faced man.

“Six weeks . . . Sev­en . . . I for­get,” said the tired man. “Met up with Griphook in the first cou­ple of days and joined forces with Gor­nuk not long af­ter. Nice to have a but of com­pa­ny.” There was a pause, while knives scraped plates and tin mugs were picked up and re­placed on the ground. “What made you leave, Ted?” con­tin­ued the man.

“Knew they were com­ing for me,” replied mel­low-​voiced Ted, and Har­ry sud­den­ly knew who he was: Tonks’s fa­ther. “Heard Death Eaters were in the area last week and de­cid­ed I’d bet­ter run for it. Re­fused to reg­is­ter as a Mug­gle-​born on prin­ci­ple, see, so I knew it was a mat­ter of time, knew I’d have to leave in the end. My wife should be okay, she’s pure-​blood. And then I net Dean here, what, a few days ago, son?”

“Yeah,” said an­oth­er voice, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione stared at each oth­er, silent but be­sides them­selves with ex­cite­ment, sure they rec­og­nized the voice of Dean Thomas, their fel­low Gryffind­or.

“Mug­gle-​born, eh?” asked the first man.

“Not sure ,” said Dean. “My dad left my mum when I was a kid. I’ve got no proof he was a wiz­ard, though.”

There was si­lence for a while, ex­cept for the sounds of munch­ing; then Ted spoke again.

“I’ve got to say, Dirk, I’m sur­prised to run in­to you. Pleased, but sur­prised. Word was that you’d been caught.”

“I was,” said Dirk. “I was halfway to Azk­aban when I made a break for it. Stunned Dawlish, and nicked his broom. It was eas­ier than you’d think; I don’t reck­on he’s quite right at the mo­ment .Might be Con­fund­ed. If so, I’d like to shake the hand of the witch or wiz­ard who did it, prob­ably saved my life.”

There was an­oth­er pause in which the fire crack­led and the riv­er rushed on. The Ted said, “And where do you two fit in? I, er, had the im­pres­sion the gob­lins were for You-​Know-​Who, on the whole.”

“You had a false im­pres­sion,” said the high­er-​voiced of the gob­lins. “We take no sides. This is a wiz­ards’ war.”

“How come you’re in hid­ing, then?”

“I deemed in pru­dent,” said the deep­er-​voiced gob­lin. “Hav­ing re­fused what I con­sid­ered an im­per­ti­nent re­quest, I could see that my per­son safe­ty was in jeop­ardy.”

“What did they ask you to do?” asked Ted.

“Du­ties ill-​be­fit­ting the dig­ni­ty of my race,” replied the gob­lin, his voice rougher and less hu­man as he said it. “I am not a house-​elf.”

“What about you, Griphook?”

“Sim­ilar rea­sons,” said the high­er voiced gob­lin. “Gringotts is no longer un­der the sole con­trol of my race. I rec­og­nize no Wiz­ard­ing mas­ter.”

He added some­thing un­der his breath in Gob­blede­gook, and Gor­nuk laughed.

“What’s the joke?” asked Dean.

“He said,” replied Dirk, “that there are things wiz­ards don’t rec­og­nize, ei­ther.”

There was a short pause.

“I don’t get it,” said Dean.

“I had my small re­venge be­fore I left,,” said Griphook in En­glish.

“Good man—gob­lin, I should say,” amend­ed Ted hasti­ly. “Didn’t man­age to lock a Death Eater up in one of the old high-​se­cu­ri­ty vaults, I sup­pose?”

“If I had, the sword would not have helped him break out,” replied Griphook. Gor­nuk laughed again and even Dirk gave a dry chuck­le.

“Dean and I are still miss­ing some­thing here,” said Ted.

“So is Severus Snape, though he does not know it,” said Griphook, and the two gob­lins roared with ma­li­cious laugh­ter. In­side the tent Har­ry’s breath­ing was shal­low with ex­cite­ment: He and Hermione stared at each oth­er, lis­ten­ing as hard as they could.

“Didn’t you hear about that, Ted?” asked Dirk. “About the kids who tried to steal Gryffind­or’s sword out of Snape’s of­fice at Hog­warts?”

An elec­tric cur­rent seemed to course through Har­ry, jan­gling his ev­ery nerve as he stood root­ed to the spot.

“Nev­er heard a word,” said Ted, “Not in the Prophet, was it?”

“Hard­ly,” chor­tled Dirk. “Griphook here told me, he heard about it from Bill Weasley who works for the bank. One of the kids who tried to take the sword was Bill’s younger sis­ter.”

Har­ry glanced to­ward Hermione and Ron, both of whom were clutch­ing the Ex­tend­able Ears as tight­ly as life­lines.

“She and a cou­ple of friends got in­to Snape’s of­fice and smashed open the glass case where he was ap­par­ent­ly keep­ing the sword. Snape caught them as they were try­ing to smug­gle it down the stair­case.

“Ah, God bless ‘em,” said Ted. “What did they think, that they’d be able to use the sword on You-​Know-​Who? Or on Snape him­self?

“Well, what­ev­er they thought they were go­ing to do with it, Snape de­cid­ed the sword wasn’t safe where it was,” said Dirk. “Cou­ple of days lat­er, once he’d got the say-​so from You-​Know-​Who, I imag­ine, he sent it down to Lon­don to be kept in Gringotts in­stead.”

The gob­lins start­ed to laugh again.

“I’m still not see­ing the joke,” said Ted.

“It’s a fake,” rasped Griphook.

“The sword of Gryffind­or!”

“Oh yes. It is a copy—en ex­cel­lent copy, it is true—but it was Wiz­ard-​made. The orig­inal was forged cen­turies ago by gob­lins and had cer­tain prop­er­ties on­ly gob­lin-​made ar­mor pos­sess­es. Wher­ev­er the gen­uine sword of Gryffind­or is, it is not in a vault at Gringotts bank.”

“I see,” said Ted. “And I take it you didn’t both­er telling the Death Eaters this/’

“I saw no rea­son to trou­ble them with the in­for­ma­tion,” said Griphook smug­ly, and now Ted and Dean joined in Gor­nuk and Dirk’s laugh­ter.

In­side the tent, Har­ry closed his eyes, will­ing some­one to ask the ques­tion he need­ed an­swered, and af­ter a minute that seemed ten, Dean obliged: he was (Har­ry re­mem­bered with a jolt) an ex-​boyfriend of Gin­ny’s too.

“What hap­pened to Gin­ny and all the oth­ers? The ones who tried to steal it?”

“Oh, they were pun­ished, and cru­el­ly,” said Griphook in­dif­fer­ent­ly.

“They’re okay, though?” asked Ted quick­ly, “I mean, the Weasleys don’t need any more of their kids in­jured, do they?”

“They suf­fered no se­ri­ous in­jury, as far as I am aware,” said Griphook.

“Lucky for them,” said Ted. “With Snape’s track record I sup­pose we should just be glad they’re still alive.”

“You be­lieve that sto­ry, then, do you, Ted?” asked Dirk.” You be­lieve Snape killed Dum­ble­dore?

“Course I do,” said Ted. “You’re not go­ing to sit there and tell me you think Pot­ter had any­thing to do with it?”

“Hard to know what to be­lieve these days,” mut­tered Dirk.

“I know Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Dean. “And I reck­on he’s the re­al thing—the Cho­sen One, or what­ev­er you want to call it.”

“Yeah, there’s a lot would like to be­lieve he’s that, son,” said Dirk, “me in­clud­ed. But where is he? Run for it, by the looks of things. You’d think if he knew any­thing we don’t, or had any­thing spe­cial go­ing for him, he’d be out there now fight­ing, ral­ly­ing re­sis­tance, in­stead of hid­ing. And you know, the Prophet made a pret­ty good case against him—”

“The Prophet?” scoffed Ted. “You de­serve to be lied to if you’re still read­ing that much, Dirk. You want the facts, try the Quib­bler.”

There was a sud­den ex­plo­sion of chok­ing and retch­ing, plus a good deal of thump­ing, by the sound of it. Dirk had swal­lowed a fish bone. At last he sput­tered, “The Quib­bler? That lu­natic rag of Xeno Love­good’s?”

“It’s not so lu­natic these days,” said Ted. “You want to give it a look, Xeno is print­ing all the stuff the Prophet’s ig­nor­ing, not a sin­gle men­tion of Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkacks in the last is­sue. How long they’ll let him get with it, mind, I don’t know. But Xeno says, front page of ev­ery is­sue, that any wiz­ard who’s against You-​Know-​Who ought to make help­ing Har­ry Pot­ter their num­ber-​one pri­or­ity.”

“Hard to help a boy who’s van­ished off the face of the earth,” said Dirk.

“Lis­ten, the fact that they haven’t caught him yet’s one hell of an achieve­ment,” said Ted. “I’d take tips from him glad­ly; it’s what we’re try­ing to do, stay free, isn’t it?”

“Yeah, well, you’ve got a point there,” said Dirk heav­ily. “With the whole of the Min­istry and all their in­form­ers look­ing for him, I’d have ex­pect­ed him to be caught by now. Mind, who’s to say they haven’t al­ready caught and killed him with­out pub­li­ciz­ing it?”

“Ah, don’t say that, Dirk,” mur­mured Ted.

There was a long pause filled with more clat­ter­ing of knives and forks. When they spoke again it was to dis­cuss whether they ought to sleep on the back or re­treat back up the wood­ed slope. De­cid­ing the trees would give bet­ter cov­er, they ex­tin­guished their fire, then clam­bered back up the in­cline, their voic­es fad­ing away.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione reeled in the Ex­tend­able Ears. Har­ry, who had found the need to re­main silent in­creas­ing­ly dif­fi­cult the longer they eaves­dropped, now found him­self un­able to say more then, “Gin­ny—the sword—”

“I know!” said Hermione.

She lunged for the tiny bead­ed bag, this time sink­ing her arm in it right up to the armpit.

“Here . . . we . . . are . . .” she said be­tween grit­ted teeth, and she pulled at some­thing that was ev­ident­ly in the depths of the bag. Slow­ly the edge of an or­nate pic­ture frame came in­to sight. Har­ry hur­ried to help her. As they lift­ed the emp­ty por­trait of Phineas Nigel­lus free of Hermione’s bag, she kept her wand point­ing at it, ready to cast a spell at any mo­ment.

“If some­body swapped the re­al sword for the face while it was in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice,” she pant­ed, as they propped the paint­ing against the side of the tent, “Phineas Nigel­lus would have seen it hap­pen, he hangs right be­side the case!”

“Un­less he was asleep,” said Har­ry, but he still held his breath as Hermione knelt down in front of the emp­ty can­vas, her wand di­rect­ed at its cen­ter, cleared her throat, then said:

“Er—Phineas? Phineas Nigel­lus?”

Noth­ing hap­pened.

“Phineas Nigel­lus?” said Hermione again. “Pro­fes­sor Black? Please could we talk to you? Please?”

“’Please’ al­ways helps,” said a cold, snide voice, and Phineas Nigel­lus slid in­to his por­trait. At one, Hermione cried:

“Ob­scu­ra!”

A black blind­fold ap­peared over Phineas Nigel­lus’s clever, dark eyes, caus­ing him to bump in­to the frame and shriek with pain.

“What—how dare—what are you—?”

“I’m very sor­ry, Pro­fes­sor Black,” said Hermione, “but it’s a nec­es­sary pre­cau­tion!”

“re­move this foul ad­di­tion at once! Re­move it, I say! You are ru­in­ing a great work of art! Where am I? What is go­ing on?”

“Nev­er mind where we are,” said Har­ry, and Phineas Nigel­lus froze, aban­don­ing his at­tempts to peel off the paint­ed blind­fold.

“Can that pos­si­ble be the voice of the elu­sive Mr. Pot­ter?”

“Maybe,” said Har­ry, know­ing that this would keep Phineas Nigel­lus’s in­ter­est. “We’ve got a cou­ple of ques­tions to ask you—about the sword of Gryffind­or.”

“Ah,” said Phineas Nigel­lus, now turn­ing his head this way and that in an ef­fort to catch sight of Har­ry, “yes. That sil­ly girl act­ed most un­wise­ly there—”

“Shut up about my sis­ter,” said Ron rough­ly, Phineas Nigel­lus raised su­per­cil­ious eye­brows.

“Who else is here?” he asked, turn­ing his head from side to side. “Your tone dis­pleas­es me! The girl and her friends were fool­hardi­ly in the ex­treme. Thiev­ing from the head­mas­ter.”

“They weren’t thiev­ing,” said Har­ry. “That sword isn’t Snape’s.”

“It be­longs to Pro­fes­sor Snape’s school,” said Phineas Nigel­lus. “Ex­act­ly what claim did the Weasley girl have up­on it? She de­served her pun­ish­ment, as did the id­iot Long­bot­tom and the Love­good odd­ity!”

“Neville is not an id­iot and Lu­na is not an odd­ity!” said Hermione.

“Where am I?” re­peat­ed Phineas Nigel­lus, start­ing to wres­tle with the blind­fold again. “Where have you brought me? Why have you re­moved me from the house of my fore­bears?”

“nev­er mind that! How did Snape pun­ish Gin­ny, Neville, and Lu­na?” asked Har­ry ur­gent­ly.

“Pro­fes­sor Snape sent them in­to the For­bid­den For­est , to do some work for the oaf, Ha­grid.”

“Ha­grid’s not an oaf!” said Hermione shril­ly.

“And Snape might’ve though that was a pun­ish­ment,” said Har­ry, “buy Gin­ny, Neville, and Lu­na prob­ably had a good laugh with Ha­grid. The For­bid­den For­est . . . they’ve faced plen­ty worse than the For­bid­den For­est , big deal!”

He felt re­lieved; he had been imag­in­ing hor­rors, the Cru­cia­tus Curse at the very least.

“What we re­al­ly want­ed to know, Pro­fes­sor Black, is whether any­one else has, um, tak­en out the sword at all? Maybe it’s been tak­en away for clean­ing—or some­thing!”

Phineas Nigel­lus paused again in his strug­gles to free his eyes and snig­gered.

“Mug­gle-​born,” he said, “Gob­lin-​made ar­mor does not re­quire clean­ing, sim­ple girl. Gob­lin’s sil­ver re­pels mun­dane dirt, im­bib­ing on­ly that which strength­ens it.”

“Don’t call Hermione sim­ple,” said Har­ry.

“I grow weary of con­tra­dic­tion,” said Phineas Nigel­lus. “per­haps it is time for me to re­turn to the head­mas­ter’s of­fice.?”

Still blind­fold­ed, he be­gan grop­ing the side of his frame, try­ing to feel his way out of his pic­ture and back in­to the one at Hog­warts. Har­ry had a sud­den in­spi­ra­tion.

“Dum­ble­dore! Can’t you bring us Dum­ble­dore?”

“I beg your par­don?” asked Phineas Nigel­lus.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore’s por­trait—couldn’t you bring him along, here, in­to yours?”

Phineas Nigel­lus turned his face in the di­rec­tion of Har­ry’s voice.

“Ev­ident­ly it is not on­ly Mug­gle-​borns who are ig­no­rant, Pot­ter. The por­traits of Hog­warts may com­mune with each oth­er, but they can­not trav­el out­side of the cas­tle ex­cept to vis­it a paint­ing of them­selves else­where. Dum­ble­dore can­not come here with me, and af­ter the treat­ment I have re­ceived at your hands, I can as­sure you that I will not be mak­ing a re­turn vis­it!”

Slight­ly crest­fall­en, Har­ry watched Phineas re­dou­ble his at­tempts to leave his frame.

“Pro­fes­sor Black,” said Hermione, “couldn’t you just tell us, please, when was the last time the sword was tak­en out of its case? Be­fore Gin­ny took it out, I mean?”

Phineas snort­ed im­pa­tient­ly.

“I be­lieve that the last time I saw the sword of Gryffind­or leave its case was when Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore used it to break open a ring.”

Hermione whipped around to look at Har­ry. Nei­ther of them dared say more in front of Phineas Nigel­lus, who had at least man­aged to lo­cate the ex­it.

“Well, good night to you,” he said a lit­tle waspish­ly, and he be­gan to move out of sight again. On­ly the edge of his hat brim re­mained in view when Har­ry gave a sud­den shout.

“Wait! Have you told Snape you saw this?”

Phineas Nigel­lus stuck his blind­fold­ed head back in­to the pic­ture.

“Pro­fes­sor Snape has more im­por­tant things on his mind that the many ec­cen­tric­ities of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. Good-​bye, Pot­ter!”

And with that, he van­ished com­plete­ly, leav­ing be­hind him noth­ing but his murky back­drop.

“Har­ry!” Hermione cried.

“I know!” Har­ry shout­ed. Un­able to con­tain him­self, he punched the air; it was more than he had dared to hope for. He strode up and down the tent, feel­ing that he could have run a mile; he did not even feel hun­gry any­more. Hermione was squash­ing Phineas Nigel­lus’s back in­to the bead­ed bag; when she had fas­tened the clasp she threw the bag aside and raised a shin­ing face to Har­ry.

“The sword can de­stroy Hor­crux­es! Gob­lin-​made blades im­bibe on­ly that which strength­ens them—Har­ry, that sword’s im­preg­nat­ed with basilisk ven­om!”

“And Dum­ble­dore didn’t five it to me be­cause he still need­ed it, he want­ed to use it on the lock­et—”

“—and he must have re­al­ized they wouldn’t let you have it if he put it in his will—”

“—so he made a copy—”

“—and put a fake in the glass case—”

“—and he left the re­al one—where?”

They gazed at east oth­er Har­ry felt that the an­swer was dan­gling in­vis­ibly in the air above them, tan­ta­liz­ing­ly close. Why hadn’t Dum­ble­dore told him? Or had he, in fact, told Har­ry, but Har­ry had not re­al­ized it at the time?”

“Think!” whis­pered Hermione. “Think! Where would he have left it?”

“Not at Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, re­sum­ing his pac­ing.

“Some­where in Hogsmeade?” sug­gest­ed Hermione.

“The Shriek­ing Shack?” said Har­ry. “No­body ev­er goes in there.”

“But Snape knows how to get in, wouldn’t that be a bit risky?”

“Dum­ble­dore trust­ed Snape,” Har­ry re­mind­ed her.

“Not enough to tell him that he had swapped the swords,” said Hermione.

“Yeah, you’re right!” said Har­ry, and he felt even more cheered at the thought that Dum­ble­dore had had some reser­va­tions, how­ev­er faint, about Snape’s trust­wor­thi­ness. “So, would he have hid­den the sword well away from Hogsmeade, then? What d’you reck­on, Ron? Ron?”

Har­ry looked around. For one be­wil­dered mo­ment he thought that Ron had left the tent, then re­al­ized that Ron was ly­ing in the shad­ow of a bunk, look­ing stony.

“Oh, re­mem­bered me, have you?” he said.

“What?”

Ron snort­ed as he stared up at the un­der­side of the up­per bunk.

“You two car­ry on. Don’t let me spoil your fun.”

Per­plexed, Har­ry looked to Hermione for help, but she shook her head, ap­par­ent­ly as non­plussed as he was.

“What’s the prob­lem?” asked Har­ry.

“Prob­lem? There’s no prob­lem,” said Ron, still re­fus­ing to look at Har­ry. “Not ac­cord­ing to you, any­ways.”

There were sev­er­al plunks on the can­vas over their heads. It had start­ed to rain.

“Well, you’ve ob­vi­ous­ly got a prob­lem,” said Har­ry. “Spit it out, will you?”

Ron swung his long legs off the bed and sat up. He looked mean, un­like him­self.

“All right, I’ll spit it out. Don’t ex­pect me to skip up and down the tent be­cause there’s some oth­er damn thing we’ve got to find. Just add it to the list of stuff you don’t know.”

“I don’t know?” re­peat­ed Har­ry. “I don’t know?”

Plunk, plunk, plunk. The rain was falling hard­er and heav­ier; it pat­tered on the leaf-​strewn bank all around them and in­to the riv­er chat­ter­ing through the dark. Dread doused Har­ry’s ju­bi­la­tion; Ron was say­ing ex­act­ly what he had sus­pect­ed and feared him to be think­ing.

“It’s not like I’m not hav­ing the time of my life here,” said Ron, “you know, with my arm man­gled and noth­ing to eat and freez­ing my back­side off ev­ery night. I just hoped, you know, af­ter we’d been run­ning round a few weeks, we’d have achieved some­thing.”

“Ron,” Hermione said, but in such a qui­et voice that Ron could pre­tend not to have heard it over the loud tat­too the rain was beat­ing on the tent.

“I thought you knew what you’d signed up for,” said Har­ry.

“Yeah, I thought I did too.”

“So what part of it isn’t liv­ing up to your ex­pec­ta­tions?” asked Har­ry. Anger was com­ing to his de­fense now. “Did you think we’d be stay­ing in five-​star ho­tels? Find­ing a Hor­crux ev­ery oth­er day? Did you think you’d be back to Mum­my by Christ­mas?”

“We thought you knew what you were do­ing!” shout­ed Ron, stand­ing up, and his words Har­ry like scald­ing knives. “We thought Dum­ble­dore had told you what to do, we thought you had a re­al plan!”

“Ron!” said Hermione, this time clear­ly au­di­ble over the rain thun­der­ing on the tent roof, but again, he ig­nored her.

“Well, sor­ry to let you down,” said Har­ry, his voice quite calm even though he felt hol­low, in­ad­equate. “I’ve been straight with you from the start. I told you ev­ery­thing Dum­ble­dore told me. And in the case you haven’t no­ticed, we’ve found one Hor­crux—”

“Yeah, and we’re about as near get­ting rid of it as we are to find­ing the rest of them—nowhere eff­ing near in oth­er words.”

“take off the lock­et, Ron,” Hermione said, her voice un­usu­al­ly high. “Please take it off. You wouldn’t be talk­ing like this if you hadn’t been wear­ing it all day.”

“Yeah, he would,” said Har­ry, who did not want ex­cus­es made for Ron. “D’you think I haven’t no­ticed the two of you whis­per­ing be­hind my back? D’you think I didn’t guess you were think­ing this stuff?

“Har­ry, we weren’t—”

“Don’t lie!” Ron hurled at her. “You said it too, you said you were dis­ap­point­ed, you said you’d thought he had a bit more to go on than—”

“I didn’t say it like that—Har­ry, I didn’t!” she cried.

The rain was pound­ing the tent, tears were pour­ing down Hermione’s face, and the ex­cite­ment of a few min­utes be­fore had van­ished as if it had nev­er been, a short-​lived fire­work that had flared and died, leav­ing ev­ery­thing dark, wet, and cold. The sword of Gryffind­or was hid­den they knew not where, and their were three teenagers in a tent whose on­ly achieve­ment was not, yet, to be dead.

“So why are you still here?” Har­ry asked Ron.

“Search me,” said Ron.

“Go home then,” said Har­ry.

“Yeah, maybe I will!” shout­ed Ron, and he took sev­er­al steps to­ward Har­ry, who did not back away. “Didn’t you hear what they said about my sis­ter? But you don’t give a rat’s fart, do you, it’s on­ly the For­bid­den For­est, Har­ry I’ve-​Faced-​Worse Pot­ter doesn’t care what hap­pened to her in there—well, I do, all right, gi­ant spi­ders and men­tal stuff—”

“I was on­ly say­ing—she was with the oth­ers, they were with Ha­grid—”

“Yeah, I get it, you don’t care! And what about the rest of my fam­ily, ‘the Weasleys don’t need an­oth­er kid in­jured,’ did you hear that?”˜ “Yeah, I—”

“Not both­ered what it meant, though?”

“Ron!” said Hermione, forc­ing her way be­tween them. “I don’t think it means any­thing new has hap­pened, any­thing we don’t know about; think, Ron, Bill’s al­ready scared, plen­ty of peo­ple must have seen that George has lost an ear by now, and you’re sup­posed to be on your deathbed with spat­ter­groit, I’m sure that’s all he meant—”

“Oh, you’re sure, are you? Right then, well, I won’t both­er my­self about them. It’s all right for you, isn’t it, with your par­ents safe­ly out of the way—”

“My par­ents are dead!” Har­ry bel­lowed.

“And mine could be go­ing the same way!” yelled Ron.

“Then GO!” roared Har­ry. “Go back to them, pre­tend you’re got over your spat­ter­groit and Mum­my’ll be able to feed you up and—”

Ron made a sud­den move­ment: Har­ry re­act­ed, but be­fore ei­ther wand was clear of its own­er’s pock­et, Hermione had raised her own.

“Prestego!” she cried, and an in­vis­ible shield ex­pand­ed be­tween her and Har­ry on the one side and Ron on the oth­er; all of them were forced back­ward a few steps by the strength of the spell, and Har­ry and Ron glared from ei­ther side of the trans­par­ent bar­ri­er as though they were see­ing each oth­er clear­ly for the first time. Har­ry felt a cor­ro­sive ha­tred to­ward Ron: Some­thing had bro­ken be­tween them.

“Leave the Hor­crux,” Har­ry said.

Ron wrenched the chain from over his head and cast the lock­et in­to a near­by chair. He turned to Hermione.

“What are you do­ing?”

“What do you mean?”

“Are you stay­ing, or what?”

“I . . .” She looked an­guished. “Yes—yes, I’m stay­ing. Ron, we said we’d go with Har­ry, we said we’d help—”

“I get it. You choose him.”

“Ron, no—please—come back, come back!”

She was im­ped­ed by her own Shield Charm; by the time she had re­moved it he had al­ready stormed in­to the night. Har­ry stood quite still and silent, lis­ten­ing to her sob­bing and call­ing Ron’s name amongst the trees.

Af­ter a few min­utes she re­turned, her sop­ping hair plas­tered to her face.

“He’s g-​g-​gone! Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed!”

She threw her­self in­to a chair, curled up, and start­ed to cry.

Har­ry felt dazed. He stooped, picked up the Hor­crux, and placed it around his own neck. He dragged blan­kets off Ron’s bunk and threw them over Hermione. Then he climbed on­to his own bed and stared up at the dark can­vas roof, lis­ten­ing to the pound­ing of the rain.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER SIXTEEN


GO­DRIC’S HOL­LOW



When Har­ry woke the fol­low­ing day it was sev­er­al sec­onds be­fore he re­mem­bered what had hap­pened. Then he hoped child­ish­ly, that it had been a dream, that Ron was still there and had nev­er left. Yet by turn­ing his head on his pil­low he could see Ron's de­sert­ed bunk. It was like a dead body in the way it seems to draw his eyes. Har­ry jumped down from his own bed, keep­ing his eyes avert­ed from Ron's. Hermione, who was al­ready busy in the kitchen, did not wish Har­ry good morn­ing, but turned

her face away quick­ly as he went by. He's gone, Har­ry told him­self. He's gone. He had to keep think­ing it as he washed and dressed as though rep­eti­tion would dull the shock of it. He's gone and he's not com­ing back. And that was the sim­ple truth of it, Har­ry knew, be­cause their pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments meant that it would be im­pos­si­ble, once they va­cat­ed this spot, for Ron to find them again. He and Hermione ate break­fast in si­lence. Hermione's eyes were puffy and red; she looked as if she had not slept. They packed up their things, Hermione dawdling. Har­ry knew why she want­ed to spin out their time on the river­bank; sev­er­al times he saw her look up ea­ger­ly, and he was sure she had de­lud­ed her­self in­to think­ing that she heard foot­steps through the heavy rain, but no red-​haired fig­ure ap­peared be­tween the trees. Ev­ery time Har­ry im­itat­ed her, looked around ( for he could not help hop­ing a lit­tle, him­self) and saw noth­ing but rain-​swept woods, an­oth­er lit­tle par­cel of fury ex­plod­ed in­side him. He could hear Ron say­ing, “We thought you knew what you were do­ing!”, and he re­sumed pack­ing with a hard knot in the pit of his stom­ach.

The mud­dy riv­er be­side them was ris­ing rapid­ly and would soon spill over on­to their bank. They had lin­gered a good hour af­ter they would usu­al­ly have de­part­ed their camp­site. Fi­nal­ly hav­ing en­tire­ly repacked the bead­ed bag three times, Hermione seemed un­able to find any more rea­sons to de­lay: She and Har­ry gasped hands and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, reap­pear­ing on a windswept heather-​cov­ered hill­side. The in­stant they ar­rived, Hermione dropped Har­ry's hand and walked away from him, fi­nal­ly sit­ting down on a large rock, her face on her knees, shak­ing with what he knew were sobs. He watched her, sup­pos­ing that he ought to go and com­fort her, but some­thing kept him root­ed to the spot. Ev­ery­thing in­side him felt cold and tight: Again he saw the con­temp­tu­ous ex­pres­sion on Ron's face. Har­ry strode off through the heather, walk­ing in a large cir­cle with the dis­traught Hermione at its cen­ter, cast­ing the spell she usu­al­ly per­formed to en­sure their pro­tec­tion.

They did not dis­cuss Ron at all over the next few days. Har­ry was de­ter­mined nev­er to men­tion his name again and Hermione seemed to know that it was no use forc­ing the is­sue, al­though some­times at night when she thought he was sleep­ing, he would hear her cry­ing. Mean­while Har­ry had start­ed bring­ing out the Ma­raud­er's map and ex­am­in­ing it by wan­dlight. He was wait­ing for the mo­ment when Ron's la­beled dot would reap­pear in the cor­ri­dors of Hog­warts, prov­ing that he had re­turned to the com­fort­able cas­tle, pro­tect­ed by his sta­tus of pure­blood. How­ev­er, Ron did not ap­pear on the map and af­ter a while Har­ry found him­self tak­ing it out sim­ply to stare at Gin­ny's name in the girl's dor­mi­to­ry, won­der­ing whether the in­ten­si­ty with which he gazed at it might break in­to her sleep, that she would some­how know he was think­ing about her, hop­ing that she was all right.

By day, hey de­vot­ed them­selves to try­ing to de­ter­mine the pos­si­ble lo­ca­tions of Gryffind­or's sword, but the more they talked about the places in which Dum­ble­dore might have hid­den it, the more des­per­ate and far-​fetched their spec­ula­tion be­came. Cud­gel his brains though he might, Har­ry could not re­mem­ber Dum­ble­dore ev­er men­tion­ing a place in which he might hide some­thing. There were mo­ments when he did not know whether he was an­gri­er with Ron or with Dum­ble­dore. We thought you knew what you were do­ing ...We thought Dum­ble­dore had told you what to do ... We thought you had a re­al plan!

He could not hide it from him­self: Ron had been right. Dum­ble­dore had left him with vir­tu­al­ly noth­ing. They had dis­cov­ered one Hor­crux, but they had no means of de­stroy­ing it: The oth­ers were as unattain­able as they had ev­er been. Hope­less­ness threat­ened to en­gulf him. He was stag­gered now to think of his own pre­sump­tion in ac­cept­ing his friends' of­fers to ac­com­pa­ny him on this me­an­der­ing, point­less jour­ney. he knew noth­ing, he had no ideas, and he was con­stant­ly, painful­ly on the alert for any in­di­ca­tions that Hermione too was about to tell him that she had had enough. That she was leav­ing.

They were spend­ing many evenings in near si­lence and Hermione took to bring­ing out Phineas Nigel­lus's por­trait and prop­ping it up in a chair, as though he might fill part of the gap­ing hole left by Ron's de­par­ture. De­spite his pre­vi­ous as­ser­tion that he would nev­er vis­it them again, Phineas Nigel­lus did not seem able to re­sist the chance to find out more about what Har­ry was up to and con­sent­ed to reap­pear, blind­fold­ed, ev­ery few days of so. Har­ry was even glad to see him, be­cause he was com­pa­ny, al­beit of a snide and taunt­ing kind. They rel­ished any news about what was hap­pen­ing at Hog­warts, though Phineas Nigel­lus was not an ide­al in­former. He ven­er­at­ed Snape, the first Slytherin head­mas­ter since he him­self had con­trolled the school, and they had to be care­ful not to crit­icize or ask im­per­ti­nent ques­tions about Snape, or Phineas Nigel­lus would in­stant­ly leave his paint­ing.

How­ev­er, he did let drop cer­tain snip­pets. Snape seemed to be fac­ing a con­stant, low lev­el of mutiny from a hard core of stu­dents. Gin­ny had been banned from go­ing in­to Hogsmeade. Snape had re­in­stat­ed Um­bridge's old de­cree for­bid­ding gath­er­ings of three or more stu­dents or any un­of­fi­cial stu­dent so­ci­eties. From all of these things, Har­ry de­duced that Gin­ny, and prob­ably Neville and Lu­na along with her, had been do­ing their best to con­tin­ue Dum­ble­dore's Army. This scant news made Har­ry want to see Gin­ny so bad­ly it felt like a stom­achache; but it al­so made him think of Ron again, and of Dum­ble­dore, and of Hog­warts it­self, which he missed near­ly as much as his ex-​girl­friend. In­deed, as Phineas Niggel­lus talked about Snape's crack­down, Har­ry ex­pe­ri­enced a split sec­ond of mad­ness when he imag­ined sim­ply go­ing back to school to join the desta­bi­liza­tion of Snape’s regime: Be­ing fed and hav­ing a soft bad, and oth­er peo­ple be­ing in charge, seemed the most won­der­ful prospect in the world at this mo­ment. But then he re­mem­bered that he was Un­de­sir­able Num­ber One, that there was a ten-​thou­sand Galleon price on his head, and that to walk in­to Hog­warts these days was just as dan­ger­ous as walk­ing in­to the Min­istry of Mag­ic. In­deed, Phineas Nigel­lus in­ad­ver­tent­ly em­pha­sized this fact my slip­ping in lead­ing ques­tions about Har­ry and Hermione's where­abouts. Hermione shoved him back in­side the bead­ed bag ev­ery time he did this, and Phineas Nigel­lus in­vari­ably re­fused to reap­pear for sev­er­al days af­ter these un­cer­emo­ni­ous good-​byes.

The weath­er grew cold­er and cold­er. They did not dare re­main in any area too long, so rather than stay­ing in the south of Eng­land, where a hard ground frost was the worst of their wor­ries, they con­tin­ued to me­an­der up and down the coun­try, brav­ing a moun­tain­side, where sleet pound­ed the tent; a wide, flat marsh, where the tent was flood­ed with chill wa­ter; and a tiny is­land in the mid­dle of a Scot­tish loch, where snow half buried the tent in the night. They had al­ready spot­ted Christ­mas Trees twin­kling from sev­er­al sit­ting room win­dows be­fore there came an evening when Har­ry re­solved to sug­gest again, what seemed to him the on­ly un­ex­plored av­enue left to them. They had just eat­en an un­usu­al­ly good meal: Hermione had been to a su­per­mar­ket un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak (scrupu­lous­ly drop­ping the mon­ey in­to an open till as she left), and Har­ry thought that she might be more per­suad­able than usu­al on a stom­ach full of spaghet­ti Bolog­nese and tinned pears.

He had al­so had the fore­sight to sug­gest that they take a few hours’ break from wear­ing the Hor­crux, which was hang­ing over the end of the bunk be­side him.

“Hermione?”

“Hmm?” She was curled up in one of the sag­ging arm­chairs with The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard. He could not imag­ine how much more she could get out of the book, which was not, af­ter all, very long, but ev­ident­ly she was still de­ci­pher­ing some­thing in it, be­cause Spell­man’s Syl­labary lay open on the arm of the chair.

Har­ry cleared his throat. He felt ex­act­ly as he had done on the oc­ca­sion, sev­er­al years pre­vi­ous­ly, when he had asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall whether he could go in­to Hogsmeade, de­spite the fact that he had not per­suad­ed the Durs­leys to sign his per­mis­sion slip.

“Hermione, I’ve been think­ing, and –“

“Har­ry, could you help me with some­thing?” Ap­par­ent­ly she had not been lis­ten­ing to him. She leaned for­ward and held out The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard.

“Look at that sym­bol,” she said, point­ing to the top of a page. Above what Har­ry as­sumed was the ti­tle of the sto­ry (be­ing un­able to read runes, he could not be sure), there was a pic­ture of what looked like a tri­an­gu­lar eye, its pupil crossed with a ver­ti­cal line.

“I nev­er took An­cient Runes, Hermione.”

“I know that; but it isn’t a rune and it’s not in the syl­labary, ei­ther. All along I thought it was a pic­ture of an eye, but I don’t think it is! It’s been inked in, look, some­body’s drawn it there, it isn’t re­al­ly part of the book. Think, have you ev­er seen it be­fore?” “No . . . No, wait a mo­ment.” Har­ry looked clos­er. “Isn’t it the same sym­bol Lu­na’s dad was wear­ing round his neck?”

“Well, that’s what I thought too!” “Then it’s Grindel­wald’s mark.”

She stared at him, open­mouthed.

“What?”

“Krum told me . . .” He re­count­ed the sto­ry that Vik­tor Krum had told him at the wed­ding. Hermione looked as­ton­ished.

“Grindel­wald’s mark?”

She looked from Har­ry to the weird sym­bol and back again. “I’ve nev­er heard that Grindel­wald had a mark. There’s no men­tion of it in any­thing I’ve ev­er read about him.”

“Well, like I say, Krum reck­oned that sym­bol was carved on a wall at Durm­strang, and Grindel­wald put it there.” She fell back in­to the old arm­chair, frown­ing.

“That’s very odd. If it’s a sym­bol of Dark Mag­ic, what’s it do­ing in a book of chil­dren’s sto­ries?”

“Yeah, it is weird,” said Har­ry. “And you’d think Scrim­geour would have rec­og­nized it. He was Min­is­ter, he ought to have been ex­pert on Dark stuff.” “I know. . . . Per­haps he thought it was an eye, just like I did. All the oth­er sto­ries have lit­tle pic­tures over the ti­tles.” She did not speak, but con­tin­ued to pore over the strange mark. Har­ry tried again.

“Hermione?”

“Hmm?”

“I’ve been think­ing. I – I want to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low.”

She looked up at him, but her eyes were un­fo­cused, and he was sure she was still think­ing about the mys­te­ri­ous mark on the book.

“Yes,” she said. “Yes, I’ve been won­der­ing that too. I re­al­ly think we’ll have to.”

“Did you hear me right?” he asked.

“Of course I did. You want to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low. I agree. I think we should. I mean, I can’t think of any­where else it could be ei­ther. It’ll be dan­ger­ous, but the more I think about it, the more like­ly it seems it’s there.” “Er – what’s there?” asked Har­ry.

At that, she looked just as be­wil­dered as he felt.

“Well, the sword, Har­ry! Dum­ble­dore must have known you’d want to go back there, and I mean, Go­dric’s Hol­low is Go­dric Gryffind­or’s birth­place –“

“Re­al­ly? Gryffind­or came from Go­dric’s Hol­low?” “Har­ry, did you ev­er even open A His­to­ry of Mag­ic?”

“Erm,” he said, smil­ing for what felt like the first time in months: The mus­cles in his face felt odd­ly stiff. “I might’ve opened it, you know, when I bought it . . . just the once. . . .”

“Well, as the vil­lage is named af­ter him I’d have thought you might have made the con­nec­tion,” said Hermione. She sound­ed much more like her old self than she had done of late; Har­ry half ex­pect­ed her to an­nounce that she was off to the li­brary. “There’s a bit about the vil­lage in A His­to­ry of Mag­ic, wait . . .”

She opened the bead­ed bag and rum­maged for a while, fi­nal­ly ex­tract­ing her copy of their old school text­book, A His­to­ry of Mag­ic by Bathil­da Bagshot, which she thumbed through un­til find­ing the page she want­ed.

“’Up­on the sig­na­ture of the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy in 1689, wiz­ards went in­to hid­ing for good. It was nat­ural, per­haps, that they formed their own small com­mu­ni­ties with­in a com­mu­ni­ty. Many small vil­lages and ham­lets at­tract­ed sev­er­al mag­ical fam­ilies, who band­ed to­geth­er for mu­tu­al sup­port and pro­tec­tion. The vil­lages of Tin­worsh in Corn­wall, Up­per Fla­gley in York­shire, and Ot­tery St. Catch­pole on the south coast of Eng­land were no­table homes to knots of Wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies who lived along­side tol­er­ant and some­times Con­fund­ed Mug­gles. Most cel­ebrat­ed of these half-​mag­ical dwelling places is, per­haps, Go­dric’s Hol­low, the West Coun­try vil­lage where the great wiz­ard Go­dric Gryffind­or was born, and where Bow­man Wright, Wiz­ard­ing smith, forged the first Gold­en Snitch. The grave­yard is full of the names of an­cient mag­ical fam­ilies, and this ac­counts, no doubt, for the sto­ries of haunt­ings that have dogged the lit­tle church be­side it for many cen­turies.’

“You and your par­ents aren’t men­tioned.” Hermione said, clos­ing the book, “be­cause Pro­fes­sor Bagshot doesn’t cov­er any­thing lat­er than the end of the nine­teenth cen­tu­ry. But you see? Go­dric’s Hol­low, Go­dric Gryffind­or, Gryffind­or’s sword; don’t you think Dum­ble­dore would have ex­pect­ed you to make the con­nec­tion?”

“Oh yeah . . .”

Har­ry did not want to ad­mit that he had not been think­ing about the sword at all when he sug­gest­ed they go to Go­dric’s Hol­low. For him, the lore of the vil­lage lay in his par­ents’ graves, the house where he had nar­row­ly es­caped death, and in the per­son of Bathil­da Bagshot.

“Re­mem­ber what Muriel said?” he asked even­tu­al­ly.

“Who?”

“You know,” he hes­itat­ed. He did not want to say Ron’s name. “Gin­ny’s great-​aunt. At the wed­ding. The one who said you had skin­ny an­kles.”

“Oh,” said Hermione. It was a sticky mo­ment: Har­ry knew that she had sensed Ron’s name in the off­ing. He rushed on:

“She said Bathil­da Bagshot still lived in Go­dric’s Hol­low.”

“Bathil­da Bagshot,” mur­mured Hermione, run­ning her in­dex fin­ger over Bathil­da’s em­bossed name on the front cov­er of A His­to­ry of Mag­ic. “Well, I sup­pose –“

She gasped so dra­mat­ical­ly that Har­ry’s in­sides turned over; he drew his wand, look­ing around at the en­trance, half ex­pect­ing to see a hand forc­ing its way through the en­trance flap, but there was noth­ing there.

“What?” he said, half an­gry, half re­lieved. “What did you do that for? I thought you’d seen a Death Eater un­zip­ping the tent, at least –“

“Har­ry, what if Bathil­da’s got the sword? What if Dum­ble­dore en­trust­ed it to her?”

Har­ry con­sid­ered this pos­si­bil­ity. Bathil­da would be an ex­treme­ly old wom­an by now, and ac­cord­ing to Muriel, she was “gaga.” Was it like­ly that Dum­ble­dore would have hid­den the sword of Gryffind­or with her? If so, Har­ry felt that Dum­ble­dore had left a great deal to chance: Dum­ble­dore had nev­er re­vealed that he had re­placed the sword with a fake, nor had he so much as men­tioned a friend­ship with Bathil­da. Now, how­ev­er, was not the mo­ment to cast doubt on Hermione’s the­ory, not when she was so sur­pris­ing­ly will­ing to fall in with Har­ry’s dear­est wish.

“Yeah, he might have done! So, are we go­ing to go to Go­dric’s Hol­low?”

“Yes, but we’ll have to think it through care­ful­ly, Har­ry.” She was sit­ting up now, and Har­ry could tell that the prospect of hav­ing a plan again had lift­ed her mood as much as his. “We’ll need to prac­tice Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing to­geth­er un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak for a start, and per­haps Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charms would be sen­si­ble too, un­less you think we should go the whole hog and use Polyjuice Po­tion? In that case we’ll need to col­lect hair from some­body. I ac­tu­al­ly think we’d bet­ter do that, Har­ry, the thick­er our dis­guis­es the bet­ter. . . .”

Har­ry let her talk, nod­ding and agree­ing when­ev­er there was a pause, but his mind had left the con­ver­sa­tion. For the first time since he had dis­cov­ered that the sword in Gringotts was a fake, he felt ex­cit­ed.

He was about to go home, about to re­turn to the place where he had had a fam­ily. It was in Go­dric’s Hol­low that, but for Volde­mort, he would have grown up and spent ev­ery school hol­iday. He could have in­vit­ed friends to his house. . . . He might even have had broth­ers and sis­ters. . . . It would have been his moth­er who had made his sev­en­teenth birth­day cake. The life he had lost had hard­ly ev­er seemed so re­al to him as at this mo­ment, when he knew he was about to see the place where it had been tak­en from him. Af­ter Hermione had gone to bed that night, Har­ry qui­et­ly ex­tract­ed his ruck­sack from Hermione’s bead­ed bag, and from in­side it, the pho­to­graph al­bum Ha­grid had giv­en him so long ago. For the first time in months, he pe­rused the old pic­tures of his par­ents, smil­ing and wav­ing up at him from the im­ages, which were all he had left of them now.

Har­ry would glad­ly have set out for Go­dric’s Hol­low the fol­low­ing day, but Hermione had oth­er ideas. Con­vinced as she was that Volde­mort would ex­pect Har­ry to re­turn to the scene of his par­ents’ deaths, she was de­ter­mined that they would set off on­ly af­ter they had en­sured that they had the best dis­guis­es pos­si­ble. It was there­fore a full week lat­er – once they had sur­rep­ti­tious­ly ob­tained hairs from in­no­cent Mug­gles who were Christ­mas shop­ping, and had prac­ticed Ap­pa­rat­ing and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing while un­der­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak to­geth­er – that Hermione agreed to make the jour­ney.

They were to Ap­pa­rate to the vil­lage un­der cov­er of dark­ness, so it was late af­ter­noon when they fi­nal­ly swal­lowed Polyjuice Po­tion, Har­ry trans­form­ing in­to a bald­ing, mid­dle-​aged Mug­gle man, Hermione in­to his small and rather mousy wife. The bead­ed bag con­tain­ing all of their pos­ses­sions (apart from the Hor­crux, which Har­ry was wear­ing around his neck) was tucked in­to an in­side pock­et of Hermione’s but­toned-​up coat. Har­ry low­ered the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over them, then they turned in­to the suf­fo­cat­ing dark­ness once again.

Heart beat­ing in his throat, Har­ry opened his eyes. They were stand­ing hand in hand in a snowy lane un­der a dark blue sky, in which the night’s first stars were al­ready glim­mer­ing fee­bly. Cot­tages stood on ei­ther side of the nar­row road, Christ­mas dec­ora­tions twin­kling in their win­dows. A short way ahead of them, a glow of gold­en street­lights in­di­cat­ed the cen­ter of the vil­lage.

“All this snow!” Hermione whis­pered be­neath the cloak. “Why didn’t we think of snow? Af­ter all our pre­cau­tions, we’ll leave prints! We’ll just have to get rid of them – you go in front, I’ll do it –“

Har­ry did not want to en­ter the vil­lage like a pan­tomime horse, try­ing to keep them­selves con­cealed while mag­ical­ly cov­er­ing their traces.

“Let’s take off the Cloak,” said Har­ry, and when she looked fright­ened, “Oh, come on, we don’t look like us and there’s no one around.”

He stowed the Cloak un­der his jack­et and they made their way for­ward un­ham­pered, the icy air sting­ing their faces as they passed more cot­tages. Any one of them might have been the one in which James and Lily had once lived or where Bathil­da lived now. Har­ry gazed at the front doors, their snow-​bur­dened roofs, and their front porch­es, won­der­ing whether he re­mem­bered any of them, know­ing deep in­side that it was im­pos­si­ble, that he had been lit­tle more than a year old when he had left this place for­ev­er. He was not even sure whether he would be able to see the cot­tage at all; he did not know what hap­pened when the sub­jects of a Fi­delius Charm died. Then the lit­tle lane along which they were walk­ing curved to the left and the heart of the vil­lage, a small square, was re­vealed to them.

Strung all around with col­ored lights, there was what looked like a war memo­ri­al in the mid­dle, part­ly ob­scured by a wind­blown Christ­mas tree. There were sev­er­al shops, a post of­fice, a pub, and a lit­tle church whose stained-​glass win­dows were glow­ing jew­el-​bright across the square.

The snow here had be­come im­pact­ed: It was hard and slip­pery where peo­ple had trod­den on it all day. Vil­lagers were criss­cross­ing in front of them, their fig­ures briefly il­lu­mi­nat­ed by street­lamps. They heard a snatch of laugh­ter and pop mu­sic as the pub door opened and closed; then they heard a car­ol start up in­side the lit­tle church.

“Har­ry, I think it’s Christ­mas Eve!” said Hermione.

“Is it?”

He had lost track of the date; they had not seen a news­pa­per for weeks.

“I’m sure it is,” said Hermione, her eyes up­on the church. “They . . . they’ll be in there, won’t they? Your mum and dad? I can see the grave­yard be­hind it.”

Har­ry felt a thrill of some­thing that was be­yond ex­cite­ment, more like fear. Now that he was so near, he won­dered whether he want­ed to see af­ter all. Per­haps Hermione knew how he was feel­ing, be­cause she reached for his hand and took the lead for the first time, pulling him for­ward. Halfway across the square, how­ev­er, she stopped dead.

“Har­ry, look!”

She was point­ing at the war memo­ri­al. As they had passed it, it had trans­formed. In­stead of an obelisk cov­ered in names, there was a stat­ue of three peo­ple: a man with un­tidy hair and glass­es, a wom­an with long hair and a kind, pret­ty face, and a ba­by boy sit­ting in his moth­er’s arms. Snow lay up­on all their heads, like fluffy white caps.

Har­ry drew clos­er, gaz­ing up in­to his par­ents’ faces. He had nev­er imag­ined that there would be a stat­ue. . . . How strange it was to see him­self rep­re­sent­ed in stone, a hap­py ba­by with­out a scar on his fore­head. . . .

“C’mon,” said Har­ry, when he had looked his fill, and they turned again to­ward the church. As they crossed the road, he glanced over his shoul­der; the stat­ue had turned back in­to the war memo­ri­al.

The singing grew loud­er as they ap­proached the church. It made Har­ry’s throat con­strict, it re­mind­ed him so force­ful­ly of Hog­warts, of Peeves bel­low­ing rude ver­sions of car­ols from in­side suits of ar­mor, of the Great Hall’s twelve Christ­mas trees, of Dum­ble­dore wear­ing a bon­net he had won in a crack­er, of Ron in a hand-​knit­ted sweater. . . .

There was a kiss­ing gate at the en­trance to the grave­yard. Hermione pushed it open as qui­et­ly as pos­si­ble and they edged through it. On ei­ther side of the slip­pery path to the church doors, the snow lay deep and un­touched. They moved off through the snow, carv­ing deep trench­es be­hind them as they walked around the build­ing, keep­ing to the shad­ows be­neath the bril­liant win­dows.

Be­hind the church, row up­on row of snowy tomb­stones pro­trud­ed from a blan­ket of pale blue that was flecked with daz­zling red, gold, and green wher­ev­er the re­flec­tions from the stained glass hit the snow. Keep­ing his hand closed tight­ly on the wand in his jack­et pock­et, Har­ry moved to­ward the near­est grave.

“Look at this, it’s an Ab­bott, could be some long-​lost re­la­tion of Han­nah’s!”

“Keep your voice down,” Hermione begged him.

They wad­ed deep­er and deep­er in­to the grave­yard, goug­ing dark tracks in­to the snow be­hind them, stoop­ing to peer at the words on old head­stones, ev­ery now and then squint­ing in­to the sur­round­ing dark­ness to make ab­so­lute­ly sure that they were un­ac­com­pa­nied.

“Har­ry, here!”

Hermione was two rows of tomb­stones away; he had to wade back to her, his heart pos­itive­ly bang­ing in his chest.

“Is it – ?”

“No, but look!”

She point­ed to the dark stone. Har­ry stooped down and saw , up­on the frozen, lichen-​spot­ted gran­ite, the words Kendra Dum­ble­dore and, a short way down her dates of birth and death, and Her Daugh­ter Ar­iana. There was al­so a quo­ta­tion:



Where your trea­sure is, there will your heart be al­so.



So Ri­ta Skeeter and Muriel had got some of their facts right. The Dum­ble­dore fam­ily had in­deed lived here, and part of it had died here.

See­ing the grave was worse than hear­ing about it. Har­ry could not help think­ing that he and Dum­ble­dore both had deep roots in this grave­yard, and that Dum­ble­dore ought to have told him so, yet he had nev­er thought to share the con­nec­tion. They could have vis­it­ed the place to­geth­er; for a mo­ment Har­ry imag­ined com­ing here with Dum­ble­dore, of what a bond that would have been, of how much it would have meant to him. But it seemed that to Dum­ble­dore, the fact that their fam­ilies lay side by side in the same grave­yard had been an unim­por­tant co­in­ci­dence, ir­rel­evant, per­haps, to the job he want­ed Har­ry to do.

Hermione was look­ing at Har­ry, and he was glad that his face was hid­den in shad­ow. He read the words on the tomb­stone again. Where your trea­sure is, there will your heart be al­so. He did not un­der­stand what these words meant. Sure­ly Dum­ble­dore had cho­sen them, as the el­dest mem­ber of the fam­ily once his moth­er had died.

“Are you sure he nev­er men­tioned – ?” Hermione be­gan.

“No,” said Har­ry curt­ly, then, “let’s keep look­ing,” and he turned away, wish­ing he had not seen the stone: He did not want his ex­cit­ed trep­ida­tion taint­ed with re­sent­ment.

“Here!” cried Hermione again a few mo­ments lat­er from out of the dark­ness. “Oh no, sor­ry! I thought it said Pot­ter.”

She was rub­bing at a crum­bling, mossy stone, gaz­ing down at it, a lit­tle frown on her face.

“Har­ry, come back a mo­ment.”

He did not want to be side­tracked again, and on­ly grudg­ing­ly made his way back through the snow to­ward her.

“What?”

“Look at this!” The grave was ex­treme­ly old, weath­ered so that Har­ry could hard­ly make out the name. Hermione showed him the sym­bol be­neath it.

“Har­ry, that’s the mark in the book!”

He peered at the place she in­di­cat­ed: The stone was so worn that it was hard to make out what was en­graved there, though there did seem to be a tri­an­gu­lar mark be­neath the near­ly il­leg­ible name.

“Yeah . . . it could be. . . .”

Hermione lit her wand and point­ed it at the name on the head­stone.

“It says Ig – Ig­no­tus, I think. . . .” “I’m go­ing to keep look­ing for my par­ents, all right?” Har­ry told her, a slight edge to his voice, and he set off again, leav­ing her crouched be­side the old grave.

Ev­ery now and then he rec­og­nized a sur­name that, like Ab­bott, he had met at Hog­warts. Some­times there were sev­er­al gen­er­ations of the same Wiz­ard­ing fam­ily rep­re­sent­ed in the grave­yard: Har­ry could tell from the dates that it had ei­ther died out, or the cur­rent mem­bers had moved away from Go­dric’s Hol­low. Deep­er and deep­er amongst the graves he went, and ev­ery time he reached a new head­stone he felt a lit­tle lurch of ap­pre­hen­sion and an­tic­ipa­tion.

The dark­ness and the si­lence seemed to be­come, all of a sud­den, much deep­er. Har­ry looked around, wor­ried, think­ing of de­men­tors, then re­al­ized that the car­ols had fin­ished, that the chat­ter and flur­ry of church­go­ers were fad­ing away as they made their way back in­to the square. Some­body in­side the church had just turned off the lights.

Then Hermione’s voice came out of the black­ness for the third time, sharp and clear from a few yards away.

“Har­ry, they’re here . . . right here.”

And he knew by her tone that it was his moth­er and fa­ther this time: He moved to­ward her, feel­ing as if some­thing heavy were press­ing on his chest, the same sen­sa­tion he had had right af­ter Dum­ble­dore had died, a grief that had ac­tu­al­ly weighed on his heart and lungs.

The head­stone was on­ly two rows be­hind Kendra and Ar­iana’s. It was made of white mar­ble, just like Dum­ble­dore’s tomb, and this made it easy to read, as it seemed to shine in the dark. Har­ry did not need to kneel or even ap­proach very close to it to make out the words en­graved up­on it.



JAMES POT­TER LILY POT­TER



BORN 27 MARCH 1960 BORN 30 JAN­UARY 1960

DIED 31 OC­TO­BER 1981 DIED 31 OC­TO­BER 1981



The last en­emy that shall be de­stroyed is death.



Har­ry read the words slow­ly, as though he would have on­ly one chance to take in their mean­ing, and he read the last of them aloud.

“’The last en­emy that shall be de­feat­ed is death’ . . .” A hor­ri­ble thought came to him, and with a kind of pan­ic. “Isn’t that a Death Eater idea? Why is that there?”

“It doesn’t mean de­feat­ing death in the way the Death Eaters mean it, Har­ry,” said Hermione, her voice gen­tle. “It means . . . you know . . . liv­ing be­yond death. Liv­ing af­ter death.”

But they were not liv­ing, thought Har­ry. They were gone. The emp­ty words could not dis­guise the fact that his par­ents’ molder­ing re­mains lay be­neath snow and stone, in­dif­fer­ent, un­know­ing. And tears came be­fore he could stop them, boil­ing hot then in­stant­ly freez­ing on his face, and what was the point in wip­ing them off or pre­tend­ing? He let them fall, his lips pressed hard to­geth­er, look­ing down at the thick snow hid­ing from his eyes the place where the last of Lily and James lay, bones now, sure­ly, or dust, not know­ing or car­ing that their liv­ing son stood so near, his heart still beat­ing, alive be­cause of their sac­ri­fice and close to wish­ing, at this mo­ment, that he was sleep­ing un­der the snow with them.

Hermione had tak­en his hand again and was grip­ping it tight­ly. He could not look at her, but re­turned the pres­sure, now tak­ing deep, sharp gulps of the night air, try­ing to steady him­self, try­ing to re­gain con­trol. He should have brought some­thing o give them, and he had not thought of it, and ev­ery plant in the grave­yard was leaf­less and frozen. But Hermione raised her wand, moved it in a cir­cle through the air, and a wreath of Christ­mas ros­es blos­somed be­fore them. Har­ry caught it and laid it on his par­ents’ grave.

As soon as he stood up he want­ed to leave: He did not think he could stand an­oth­er mo­ment there. He put his arm around Hermione’s shoul­ders, and she put hers around his waist, and they turned in si­lence and walked away through the snow, past Dum­ble­dore’s moth­er and sis­ter, back to­ward the dark church and the out-​of-​sight kiss­ing gate.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER SEVENTEEN


BATHIL­DA’S SE­CRET



“Har­ry, stop.” “What's wrong?” They had on­ly just reached the grave of the un­known Ab­bott. “There's some­one there. Some­one watch­ing us. I can tell. There, over by the bush­es.” They stood quite still, hold­ing on to each oth­er, gaz­ing at the dense black bound­ary of the grave­yard. Har­ry could not see any­thing. “Are you sure?” “I saw some­thing move. I could have sworn I did...” She broke from him to free her wand arm. “We look like Mug­gles,” Har­ry point­ed out. “Mug­gles who've just been lay­ing flow­ers on your par­ents' grave? Har­ry, I'm sure there's some­one over there!” Har­ry thought of A His­to­ry of Mag­ic; the grave­yard was sup­posed to be haunt­ed; what if --? But then he heard a rus­tle and saw a lit­tle ed­dy of dis­lodged snow in the bush to which Hermione had point­ed. Ghosts could not move snow. “It's a cat,” said Har­ry, af­ter a sec­ond or two, “or a bird. If it was a Death Eater we'd be dead by now. But let's get out of here, and we can put the Cloak back on.” They glanced back re­peat­ed­ly as they made their way out of the grave­yard. Har­ry, who did not feel as san­guine as he had pre­tend­ed when re­as­sur­ing Hermione, was glad to reach the gate and the slip­pery pave­ment. They pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak back over them­selves. The pub was fuller than be­fore. Many voic­es in­side it were now singing the car­ol that they had heard as they ap­proached the church. For a mo­ment, Har­ry con­sid­ered sug­gest­ing they take refuge in­side it, but be­fore he could say any­thing Hermione mur­mured, “Let's go this way,” and pulled him down the dark street lead­ing out of the vil­lage in the op­po­site di­rec­tion from which they had en­tered. Har­ry could make out the point where the cot­tages end­ed and the lane turned in­to open coun­try again. They walked as quick­ly as they dared, past more win­dows sparkling with mul­ti­col­ored lights, the out­lines of Christ­mas trees dark through the cur­tains. “How are we go­ing to find Bathil­da's house?” asked Hermione, who was shiv­er­ing a lit­tle and kept glanc­ing back over her shoul­der. “Har­ry? What do you think? Har­ry?” She tugged at this arm, but Har­ry was not pay­ing at­ten­tion. He was look­ing to­ward the dark mass that stood at the very end of this row of hous­es. Next mo­ment he sped up, drag­ging Hermione along with him, she slipped a lit­tle on the ice. “Har­ry --” “Look ... Look at it, Hermione ...” “I don't ... oh!” He could see it; the Fi­delius Charm must have died with James and Lily. The hedge had grown wild in the six­teen years since Ha­grid had tak­en Har­ry from the rub­ble that lay scat­tered amongst the waist-​high grass. Most of the cot­tage was still stand­ing, though en­tire­ly cov­ered in the dark ivy and snow, but the right side of the top floor had been blown apart; that, Har­ry was sure, was where the curse had back­fired. He and Hermione stood at the gate, gaz­ing up at the wreck of what must once have been a cot­tage just like those that flanked it. “I won­der why no­body's ev­er re­built it?” whis­pered Hermione. “Maybe you can't re­build it?” Har­ry replied. “Maybe it's like the in­juries from Dark Mag­ic and you can't re­pair the dam­age?” He slipped a hand from be­neath the Cloak and grasped the snowy and thick­ly rust­ed gate, not wish­ing to open it, but sim­ply so he'd some part of the house. “You're not go­ing to go in­side? It looks un­safe, it might -- oh, Har­ry, look!” His touch on the gate seemed to have done it. A sign had risen out of the ground in front of them, up thor­ough the tan­gles of net­tles and weeds, like some bizarre, fast-​grow­ing flow­er, and in gold­en let­ters up­on the wood it said: On this spot, on this night of 31 Oc­to­ber 1981, Lily and James Pot­ter lost their lives. Their son, Har­ry, re­mains the on­ly wiz­ard ev­er to have sur­vived the Killing Curse. This house, in­vis­ible to Mug­gles, has been left in its ru­ined state as a mon­ument to the Pot­ters and as a re­minder of the vi­olence that tore apart their fam­ily. And all around these neat­ly let­tered words, scrib­bles had been added by oth­er witch­es and wiz­ards who had come to see the place where the Boy Who Lived had es­caped. Some had mere­ly signed their names in Ev­er­last­ing Ink; oth­ers had carved their ini­tials in­to the wood, still oth­ers had left mes­sages. The most re­cent of these, shin­ing bright­ly over six­teen years' worth of mag­ical graf­fi­ti, all said sim­ilar things. Good luck, Har­ry, wher­ev­er you are. If you read this, Har­ry, we're all be­hind you! Long live Har­ry Pot­ter. “They shouldn't have writ­ten on the sign!” said Hermione, in­dig­nant. But Har­ry beamed at her. “It's bril­liant. I'm glad they did. I ...” He broke off. A heav­ily muf­fled fig­ure was hob­bling up the lane to­ward them, sil­hou­et­ted by the bright lights in the dis­tant square. Har­ry thought, though it was hard to judge, that the fig­ure was a wom­an. She was mov­ing slow­ly, pos­si­bly fright­ened of slip­ping on the snowy ground. Her stoop, her stout­ness, her shuf­fling gait all gave an im­pres­sion of ex­treme age. They watched in si­lence as she drew near­er. Har­ry was wait­ing to see whether she would turn in­to any of the cot­tages she was pass­ing, but he knew in­stinc­tive­ly that she would not. At last she came to a halt a few yards from them and sim­ply stood there in the mid­dle of the frozen road, fac­ing them. He did not need Hermione's pinch to his arm. There was next to no chance that this wom­an was a Mug­gle: She was stand­ing there gaz­ing at a house that ought to have been com­plete­ly in­vis­ible to her, if she was not a witch. Even as­sum­ing that she was a witch, how­ev­er, it was odd be­hav­ior to come out on a night this cold, sim­ply to look at an old ru­in. By all the rules of nor­mal mag­ic, mean­while, she ought not to be able to see Hermione and him at all. Nev­er­the­less, Har­ry had the strangest feel­ing that she knew that they were there, and al­so who they were. Just as he had reached this un­easy con­clu­sion, she raised a gloved hand and beck­oned. Hermione moved clos­er to him un­der the Cloak, her arm pressed against his. “How does she know?” He shook his head. The wom­an beck­oned again, more vig­or­ous­ly. Har­ry could think of many rea­sons not to obey the sum­mons, and yet his sus­pi­cions about her iden­ti­ty were grow­ing stronger ev­ery mo­ment that they stood fac­ing each oth­er in the de­sert­ed street. Was it pos­si­ble that she had been wait­ing for them all these long months? That Dum­ble­dore had told her to wait, and that Har­ry would come in the end? Was it not like­ly that it was she who had moved in the shad­ows in the grave­yard and had fol­lowed them to this spot? Even her abil­ity to sense them sug­gest­ed some Dum­ble­dore-​ish pow­er that he had nev­er en­coun­tered be­fore. Fi­nal­ly Har­ry spoke, caus­ing Hermione to gasp and jump. “Are you Bathil­da?” The muf­fled fig­ure nod­ded and beck­oned again. Be­neath the Cloak Har­ry and Hermione looked at each oth­er. Har­ry raised his eye­brows; Hermione gave a tiny, ner­vous nod. They stepped to­ward the wom­an and , at once, she turned and hob­bled off back the way they had come. Lead­ing them past sev­er­al hous­es, she turned in at a gate. They fol­lowed her up the front path through a gar­den near­ly as over­grown as the one they had just left. She fum­bled for a mo­ment with a key at the front door, then opened it and stepped back to let them pass. She smelled bad, or per­haps it was her house; Har­ry wrin­kled his nose as they si­dled past her and pulled off the Cloak. Now that he was be­side her, he re­al­ized how tiny she was; bowed down with age, she came bare­ly lev­el with his chest. She closed the door be­hind them, her knuck­les blue and mot­tled against the peel­ing paint, then turned and peered in­to Har­ry's face. Her eyes were thick with cataracts and sunken in­to folds of trans­par­ent skin, and her whole face was dot­ted with bro­ken veins and liv­er spots. He won­dered whether she could make him out at all; even if she could, it was the bald­ing Mug­gle whose iden­ti­ty he had stolen that she would see. The odor of old age, of dust, of un­washed clothes and stale food in­ten­si­fied as the un­wound a moth-​eat­en black shawl, re­veal­ing a head of scant white hair through which the scalp showed clear­ly. “Bathil­da?” Har­ry re­peat­ed. She nod­ded again. Har­ry be­came aware of the lock­et against his skin; the thing in­side it that some­times ticked or beat had wo­ken; he could feel it puls­ing through the cold gold. Did it know, could it sense, that the thing that would de­stroy it was near? Bathil­da shuf­fled past them, push­ing Hermione aside as though she had not seen her, and van­ished in­to what seemed to be a sit­ting room. “Har­ry, I'm not sure about this,” breathed Hermione. “Look at the size of her, I think we could over­pow­er her if we had to,” said Har­ry. “Lis­ten, I should have told you, I knew she wasn't all there. Muriel called her 'gaga.'” “Come!” called Bathil­da from the next room. Hermione jumped and clutched Har­ry's arm. “It's okay,” said Har­ry re­as­sur­ing­ly, and he led the way in­to the sit­ting room. Bathil­da was tot­ter­ing around the place light­ing can­dles, but it was still very dark, not to men­tion ex­treme­ly dirty. Thick dust crunched be­neath their feet, and Har­ry's nose de­tect­ed, un­der­neath the dank and mildewed smell, some­thing worse, like meat gone bad. He won­dered when was the last time any­one had been in­side Bathil­da's house to check whether she was cop­ing. She seemed to have for­got­ten that she could do mag­ic, too, for she lit the can­dles clum­si­ly by hand, her trail­ing lace cuff in con­stant dan­ger of catch­ing fire. “Let me do that,” of­fered Har­ry, and he took the match­es from her. She stood watch­ing him as he fin­ished light­ing the can­dle stubs that stood on saucers around the room, perched pre­car­ious­ly on stacks of books and on side ta­bles crammed with cracked and moldy cups. The last sur­face on which Har­ry spot­ted a can­dle was a bow-​front­ed chest of draw­ers on which there stood a large num­ber of pho­tographs. When the flame danced in­to life, its re­flec­tion wa­vered on their dusty glass and sil­ver. He saw a few tiny move­ments from the pic­tures. As Bathil­da fum­bled with logs for the fire, he mut­tered “Ter­geo”: The dust van­ished from the pho­tographs, and he saw at once that half a dozen were miss­ing from the largest and most or­nate frames. He won­dered whether Bathil­da or some­body else had re­moved them. Then the sight of a pho­to­graph near the back of the col­lec­tion caught his eye, and he snatched it up. It was the gold­en-​haired, mer­ry-​faced thief, the young man who had perched on Gre­gorovitch's win­dowsill, smil­ing lazi­ly up at Har­ry out of the sil­ver frame. And it came to Har­ry in­stant­ly where he had seen the boy be­fore: in The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, arm in arm with the teenage Dum­ble­dore, and that must be where all the miss­ing pho­tographs were: in Ri­ta's book. “Mrs. -- Miss -- Bagshot?” he said, and his voice shook slight­ly. “Who is this?” Bathil­da was stand­ing in the mid­dle of the room watch­ing Hermione light the fire for her. “Miss Bagshot?” Har­ry re­peat­ed, and he ad­vanced with the pic­ture in his hands as the flames burst in­to life in the fire­place. Bathil­da looked up at his voice, and the Hor­crux beat faster up­on his chest. “Who is this per­son?” Har­ry asked her, push­ing the pic­ture for­ward. She peered at it solemn­ly, then up at Har­ry. “Do you know who this is?” he re­peat­ed in a much slow­er and loud­er voice than usu­al. “This man? Do you know him? What's he called?” Bathil­da mere­ly looked vague. Har­ry felt an aw­ful frus­tra­tion. How had Ri­ta Skeeter un­locked Bathil­da's mem­ories? “Who is this man?” he re­peat­ed loud­ly. “Har­ry, what area you do­ing?” asked Hermione. “This pic­ture. Hermione, it's the thief, the thief who stole from Gre­gorovitch! Please!” he said to Bathil­da. “Who is this?” But she on­ly stared at him. “Why did you ask us to come with you, Mrs. - Miss -- Bagshot?” asked Hermione, rais­ing her own voice. “Was there some­thing you want­ed to tell us?” Giv­ing no sign that she had heard Hermione, Bathil­da now shuf­fled a few steps clos­er to Har­ry. With a lit­tle jerk of her head she looked back in­to the hall. “You want us to leave?” he asked. She re­peat­ed the ges­ture, this time point­ing first­ly at him, then at her­self, then at the ceil­ing. “Oh, right... Hermione, I think she wants me to go up­stairs with her.” “All right,” said Hermione, “let's go.” But when Hermione moved, Bathil­da shook her head with sur­pris­ing vig­or, once more point­ing first at Har­ry, then to her­self. “She wants me to go with her, alone.” “Why?” asked Hermione, and her voice rang out sharp and clear in the can­dlelit room, the old la­dy shook her head a lit­tle at the loud noise. “Maybe Dum­ble­dore told her to give the sword to me, and on­ly to me?” “Do you re­al­ly think she knows who you are?” “Yes,” said Har­ry, look­ing down in­to the milky eyes fixed up­on his own. “I think she does.” “Well, okay then, but be quick, Har­ry.” “Lead the way,” Har­ry told Bathil­da. She seemed to un­der­stand, be­cause she shuf­fled around him to­ward the door. Har­ry glanced back at Hermione with a re­as­sur­ing smile, but he was not sure she had seen it; she stood hug­ging her­self in the midst of the can­dlelit squalor, look­ing to­ward the book­case. As Har­ry walked out of the room, un­seen by both Hermione and Bathil­da, he slipped the sil­ver-​framed pho­to­graph of the un­known thief in­side his jack­et. The stairs were steep and nar­row; Har­ry was half tempt­ed to place his hands on stout Bathil­da's back­side to en­sure that she did not top­ple over back­ward on top of him, which seemed on­ly too like­ly. Slow­ly, wheez­ing a lit­tle, she climbed to the up­per land­ing, turned im­me­di­ate­ly right, and led him in­to a low-​ceilinged bed­room. It was pitch-​black and smelled hor­ri­ble: Har­ry had just made out a cham­ber pot pro­trud­ing from un­der the bed be­fore Bathil­da closed the door and even that was swal­lowed by the dark­ness. “Lu­mos,” said Har­ry, and his wand ig­nit­ed. He gave a start: Bathil­da had moved close to him in those few sec­onds of dark­ness, and he had not heard her ap­proach. “You are Pot­ter?” she whis­pered. “Yes, I am.” She nod­ded slow­ly, solemn­ly. Har­ry felt the Hor­crux beat­ing fast, faster than his own heart; It was an un­pleas­ant, ag­itat­ing sen­sa­tion. “Have you got any­thing for me?” Har­ry asked, but she seemed dis­tract­ed by his lit wand-​tip. “Have you got any­thing for me?” he re­peat­ed. Then she closed her eyes and sev­er­al things hap­pened at once: Har­ry's scar prick­led painful­ly; the Hor­crux twitched so that the front of his sweater ac­tu­al­ly moved; the dark, fetid room dis­solved mo­men­tar­ily. He felt a leap of joy and spoke in a high, cold voice: Hold him! Har­ry swayed where he stood: The dark, foul-​smelling room seemed to close around him again; he did not know what had just hap­pened. “Have you got any­thing for me?” he asked for a third time, much loud­er. “Over here,” she whis­pered, point­ing to the cor­ner. Har­ry raised his wand and saw the out­line of a clut­tered dress­ing ta­ble be­neath the cur­tained win­dow. This time she did not lead him. Har­ry edged be­tween her and the un­made bed, his wand raised. He did not want to look away from her. “What is it?” he asked as he reached the dress­ing ta­ble, which was heaped high with what looked and smelled like dirty laun­dry. “There,” she said, point­ing at the shape­less mass. And in the in­stant that he looked away, his eyes tak­ing the tan­gled mess for a sword hilt, a ru­by, she moved weird­ly: He saw it out of the cor­ner of his eye; pan­ic made him turn and hor­ror par­alyzed him as he saw the old body col­laps­ing and the great snake pour­ing from the place where her neck had been. The snake struck as he raised his wand: The force of the bite to his fore­arm sent the wand spin­ning up to­ward the ceil­ing; its light swung dizzy­ing­ly around the room and was ex­tin­guished; Then a pow­er­ful blow from the tail to his midriff knocked the breath out of him: He fell back­ward on­to the dress­ing ta­ble, in­to the mound of filthy cloth­ing -- He rolled side­ways, nar­row­ly avoid­ing the snake's tail, which thrashed down up­on the ta­ble where he had been a sec­ond ear­li­er. Frag­ments of the glass sur­face rained up­on him as he hit the floor. From be­low he heard Hermione call, “Har­ry?” He could not get enough breath in­to his lungs to call back: Then a heavy smooth mass smashed him to the floor and he felt it slide over him, pow­er­ful, mus­cu­lar -- “No!” he gasped, pinned to the floor. “Yes,” whis­pered the voice. “Yesss... hold you ... hold you ...” “Ac­cio ... Ac­cio Wand ...” But noth­ing hap­pened and he need­ed his hands to try to force the snake from him as it coiled it­self around his tor­so, squeez­ing the air from him, press­ing the Hor­crux hard in­to his chest, a cir­cle of ice that throbbed with life, inch­es from his own fran­tic heart, and his brain was flood­ing with cold, white light, all thought oblit­er­at­ed, his own breath drowned, dis­tant foot­steps, ev­ery­thing go­ing... A met­al heart was bang­ing out­side his chest, and now he was fly­ing, fly­ing with tri­umph in his heart, with­out need of broom­stick or thes­tral... He was abrupt­ly awake in the sour-​smelling dark­ness; Nagi­ni had re­leased him. He scram­bled up and saw the snake out­lined against the land­ing light: It struck, and Hermione dived aside with a shriek; her de­flect­ed curse hit the cur­tained win­dow, which shat­tered. Frozen air filled the room as Har­ry ducked to avoid an­oth­er show­er of bro­ken glass and his foot slipped on a pen­cil-​like some­thing -- his wand -- He bent and snatched it up, but now the room was full of the snake, its tail thrash­ing; Hermione was nowhere to be seen and for a mo­ment Har­ry thought the worst, but then there was a loud bang and a flash of red light, and the snake flew in­to the air, smack­ing Har­ry hard in the face as it went, coil af­ter heavy coil ris­ing up to the ceil­ing. Har­ry raised his wand, but as he did so, his scar seared more painful­ly, more pow­er­ful­ly than it had done in years. “He's com­ing! Hermione, he's com­ing!” As he yelled the snake fell, hiss­ing wild­ly. Ev­ery­thing was chaos: It smashed shelves from the wall, and splin­tered chi­na flew ev­ery­where as Har­ry jumped over the bed and seized the dark shape he knew to be Hermione -- She shrieked with pain as he pulled her back across the bed: The snake reared again, but Har­ry knew that worse than the snake was com­ing, was per­haps al­ready at the gate, his head was go­ing to split open with the pain from his scar -- The snake lunged as he took a run­ning leap, drag­ging Hermione with him; as it struck, Hermione screamed, “Con­fringo!” and her spell flew around the room, ex­plod­ing the wardrobe mir­ror and ric­ochet­ing back at them, bounc­ing from floor to ceil­ing; Har­ry felt the heat of it sear the back of his hand. Glass cut his cheek as, pulling Hermione with him, he leapt from bed to bro­ken dress­ing ta­ble and then straight out of the smashed win­dow in­to noth­ing­ness, her scream re­ver­ber­at­ing through the night as they twist­ed in midair ... And then his scar burst open and he was Volde­mort and he was run­ning across the fetid bed­room, his long white hands clutch­ing at the win­dowsill as he glimpsed the bald man and the lit­tle wom­an twist and van­ish, and he screamed with rage, a scream that min­gled with the girl's, that echoed across the dark gar­dens over the church bells ring­ing in Christ­mas Day... And his scream was Har­ry's scream, his pain was Har­ry's pain... that it could hap­pen here, where it had hap­pened be­fore... here, with­in sight of that house where he had come so close to know­ing what it was to die ... to die ... the pain was so ter­ri­ble ... ripped from his body ... But if he had no body, why did his head hurt so bad­ly; if he was dead, how cold he feel so un­bear­ably, didn't pain cease with death, didn't it go ... The night wet and windy, two chil­dren dressed as pump­kins wad­dling across the square and the shop win­dows cov­ered in pa­per spi­ders, all the tawdry Mug­gle trap­pings of a world in which they did not be­lieve ... And he was glid­ing along, that sense of pur­pose and pow­er and right­ness in him that he al­ways knew on these oc­ca­sions ... Not anger ... that was for weak­er souls than he ... but tri­umph, yes ... He had wait­ed for this, he had hoped for it ... “Nice cos­tume, mis­ter!” He saw the small boy's smile fal­ter as he ran near enough to see be­neath the hood of the cloak, saw the fear cloud his pained face: Then the child turned and ran away ... Be­neath the robe he fin­gered the han­dle of his wand ... One sim­ple move­ment and the child would nev­er reach his moth­er ... but un­nec­es­sary, quite un­nec­es­sary ... And along a new and dark­er street he moved, and now his des­ti­na­tion was in sight at last, the Fi­delius Charm bro­ken, though they did not know it yet ... And he made less noise than the dead leaves slith­er­ing along the pave­ment as he drew lev­el with the dark hedge, and steered over it ... They had not drawn the cur­tains; he saw them quite clear­ly in their lit­tle sit­ting room, the tall black-​haired man in his glass­es, mak­ing puffs of col­ored smoke erupt from his wand for the amuse­ment of the small black-​haired boy in his blue pa­ja­mas. The child was laugh­ing and try­ing to catch the smoke, to grab it in his small fist ... A door opened and the moth­er en­tered, say­ing words he cold not hear, her long dark-​red hair falling over her face. Now the fa­ther scooped up the son and hand­ed him to the moth­er. He threw his wand down up­on the so­fa and stretched, yawn­ing... The gate creaked a lit­tle as he pushed it open, but James Pot­ter did not hear. His white hand pulled out the wand be­neath his cloak and point­ed it at the door, which burst open... He was over the thresh­old as James came sprint­ing in­to the hall. It was easy, too easy, he had not even picked up his wand ... “Lily, take Har­ry and go! It's him! Go! Run! I'll hold him off!” Hold him off, with­out a wand in his hand! ... He laughed be­fore cast­ing the curse ... “Ava­da Ke­davra!” The green light filled the cramped hall­way, it lit the pram pushed against the wall, it made the ban­is­ters glow like light­ing rods, and James Pot­ter fell like a mar­ionette whose strings were cut ... He could hear her scream­ing from the up­per floor, trapped, but as long as she was sen­si­ble, she, at least, had noth­ing to fear ... He climbed the steps, lis­ten­ing with faint amuse­ment to her at­tempts to bar­ri­cade her­self in ... She had no wand up­on her ei­ther ... How stupid they were, and how trust­ing, think­ing that their safe­ty lay in friends, that weapons could be dis­card­ed even for mo­ments... He forced the door open, cast aside the chair and box­es hasti­ly piled against it with one lazy wave of his wand ... and there she stood, the child in her arms. At the sight of him, she dropped her son in­to the crib be­hind her and threw her arms wide, as if this would help, as if in shield­ing him from sight she hoped to be cho­sen in­stead ... “Not Har­ry, not Har­ry, please not Har­ry!” “Stand aside, you sil­ly girl... stand aside, now.” “Not Har­ry, please no, take me, kill me in­stead --” “This is my last warn­ing --” “Not Har­ry! Please ... have mer­cy ... have mer­cy ... Not Har­ry! Not Har­ry! Please -- I'll do any­thing ...” “Stand aside. Stand aside, girl!” He could have forced her away from the crib, but it seemed more pru­dent to fin­ish them all ... The green light flashed around the room and she dropped like her hus­band. The child had not cried all this time. He could stand, clutch­ing the bars of his crib, and he looked up in­to the in­trud­er's face with a kind of bright in­ter­est, per­haps think­ing that it was his fa­ther who hid be­neath the cloak, mak­ing more pret­ty lights, and his moth­er would pop up any mo­ment, laugh­ing -- He point­ed the wand very care­ful­ly in­to the boy's face: He want­ed to see it hap­pen, the de­struc­tion of this one, in­ex­pli­ca­ble dan­ger. The child be­gan to cry: It had seen that he was not James. He did not like it cry­ing, he had nev­er been able to stom­ach the small ones whin­ing in the or­phan­age -- “Ava­da Ke­davra!” And then he broke. He was noth­ing, noth­ing but pain and ter­ror, and he must hide him­self, not here in the rub­ble of the ru­ined house, where the child was trapped scream­ing, but far away ... far away ... “No,” he moaned. The snake rus­tled on the filthy, clut­tered floor, and he had killed the boy, and yet he was the boy ... “No...” And now he stood at the bro­ken win­dow of Bathil­da's house, im­mersed in mem­ories of his great­est loss, and at his feet the great snake slith­ered over bro­ken chi­na and glass... He looked down and saw some­thing... some­thing in­cred­ible... “No...” “Har­ry, it's all right, you're all right!” He stooped down and picked up the smashed pho­to­graph. There he was, the un­known thief, the thief he was seek­ing... “No... I dropped it... I dropped it ...” “Har­ry, it's okay, wake up, wake up!” He was Har­ry... Har­ry, not Volde­mort ... and the thing that was rustling was not a snake ... He opened his eyes. “Har­ry,” Hermione whis­pered. “Do you feel all -- all right?” “Yes,” he lied. He was in the tent, ly­ing on one of the low­er bunks be­neath a heap of blan­kets. He could tell that it was al­most dawn by the still­ness and qual­ity of the cold, flat light be­yond the can­vas ceil­ing. He was drenched in sweat; he could feel it on the sheets and blan­kets. “We got away.” “Yes,” said Hermione. “I had to use a Hov­er Charm to get you in­to your bunk. I couldn't lift you. You've been ... Well, you haven't been quite ...” There were pur­ple shad­ows un­der her brown eyes and he no­ticed a small sponge in her hand: She had been wip­ing his face. “You've been ill,” she fin­ished. “Quite ill.” “How long ago did we leave?” “Hours ago. It's near­ly morn­ing.” “And I've been... what, un­con­scious?” “Not ex­act­ly,” said Hermione un­com­fort­ably. “You've been shout­ing and moan­ing and ... things,” she added in a tone that made Har­ry feel un­easy. What had he done? Screamed curs­es like Volde­mort, cried like the ba­by in the crib? “I couldn't get the Hor­crux off you,” Hermione said, and he knew she want­ed to change the sub­ject. “It was stuck, stuck to your chest. You've got a mark; I'm sor­ry, I had to use a Sev­er­ing Charm to get it away. The snake hit you too, but I've cleaned the wound and put some dit­tany on it ...” He pulled the sweaty T-​shirt he was wear­ing away from him­self and looked down. There was a scar­let oval over his heart where the lock­et had burned him. He could al­so see the half healed punc­ture marks to his fore­arm. “Where've you put the Hor­crux?” “In my bag. I think we should keep it off for a while.” He lay back on his pil­lows and looked in­to her pinched gray face. “We shouldn't have gone to Go­dric's Hol­low. It's my fault, it's all my fault. Hermione, I'm sor­ry.” “It's not you fault. I want­ed to go too; I re­al­ly thought Dum­ble­dore might have left the sword there for you.” “Yeah, well ... we got that wrong, didn't we?” “What hap­pened, Har­ry? What hap­pened when she took you up­stairs? Was the snake hid­ing some­where? Did it just come out and kill her and at­tack you?” “No.” he said. “She was the snake ... or the snake was her ... all along.” “W-​what?” He closed his eyes. He could still smell Bathil­da's house on him; it made the whole thing hor­ri­bly vivid. “Bathil­da must've been dead a while. The snake was ... was in­side her. You-​Know-​Who put it there in Go­dric's Hol­low, to wait. You were right. He knew I'd go back.” “The snake was in­side her?” He opened his eyes again. Hermione looked re­volt­ed, nau­se­at­ed. “Lupin said there would be mag­ic we'd nev­er imag­ined.” Har­ry said. “She didn't want to talk in front of you, be­cause it was Parsel­tongue, all Parsel­tongue, and I didn't re­al­ize, but of course I could un­der­stand her. Once we were up in the room, the snake sent a mes­sage to You-​Know-​Who, I heard it hap­pen in­side my head, I felt him get ex­cit­ed, he said to keep me there ... and then ...” He re­mem­bered the snake com­ing out of Bathil­da's neck: Hermione did not need to know the de­tails. “...she changed, changed in­to the snake, and at­tacked.” He looked down at the punc­ture marks. “It wasn't sup­posed to kill me, just keep me there till You-​Know-​Who came.” If he had on­ly man­aged to kill the snake, it would have been worth it, all of it ... Sick at heart, he sat up and threw back the cov­ers. “Har­ry, no, I'm sure you ought to rest!” “You're the one who needs sleep. No of­fense, but you look ter­ri­ble. I'm fine. I'll keep watch for a while. Where's my wand?” She did not an­swer, she mere­ly looked at him. “Where's my wand, Hermione?” She was bit­ing her lip, and tears swam in her eyes. “Har­ry ...” “Where's my wand?” She reached down be­side the bed and held it out to him. The hol­ly and phoenix wand was near­ly sev­ered in two. One frag­ile strand of phoenix feath­er kept both pieces hang­ing to­geth­er. The wood had splin­tered apart com­plete­ly. Har­ry took it in­to his hands as though it was a liv­ing thing that had suf­fered a ter­ri­ble in­jury. He could not think prop­er­ly: Ev­ery­thing was a blur of pan­ic and fear. Then he held out the want to Hermione. “Mend it. Please.” “Har­ry, I don't think, when it's bro­ken like this --” “Please, Hermione, try!” “R-​Reparo.” The dan­gling half of the wand re­sealed it­self. Har­ry held it up. “Lu­mos!” The wand sparked fee­bly, then went out. Har­ry point­ed it at Hermione. “Ex­pel­liar­mus!” Hermione's wand gave a lit­tle jerk, but did not leave her hand. The fee­ble at­tempt at mag­ic was too much for Har­ry's wand, which split in­to two again. He stared at it, aghast, un­able to take in what he was see­ing ... the wand that had sur­vived so much ... “Har­ry.” Hermione whis­pered so qui­et­ly he could hard­ly hear her. “I'm so, so sor­ry. I think it was me. As we were leav­ing, you know, the snake was com­ing for us, and so I cast a Blast­ing Curse, and it re­bound­ed ev­ery­where, and it must have -- must have hit --” “It was an ac­ci­dent.” said Har­ry me­chan­ical­ly. He felt emp­ty, stunned. “We'll -- we'll find a way to re­pair it.” “Har­ry, I don't think we're go­ing to be able to,” said Hermione, the ears trick­ling down her face. “Re­mem­ber ... re­mem­ber Ron? When he broke his wand, crash­ing the car? It was nev­er the same again, he had to get a new one.” Har­ry thought of Ol­li­van­der, kid­napped and held hostage by Volde­mort; of Gre­gorovitch, who was dead. How was he sup­posed to find him­self a new wand? “Well,” he said, in a false­ly mat­ter-​of-​fact voice, “well, I'll just bor­row yours for now, then. While I keep watch.” Her face glazed with tears, Hermione hand­ed over her wand, and he left her sit­ting be­side his bed, de­sir­ing noth­ing more than to get away from her.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER EIGHTTEEN


THE LIFE AND LIES OF AL­BUS DUM­BLE­DORE



The sun was com­ing up: The pure, col­or­less vast­ness of the sky stretched over him, in­dif­fer­ent to him and his suf­fer­ing. Har­ry sat down in the tent en­trance and took a deep breath of clean air. Sim­ply to be alive to watch the sun rise over the sparkling snowy hill­side ought to have been the great­est trea­sure on earth, yet he could not ap­pre­ci­ate it: His sens­es had been spiked by the calami­ty of los­ing his want. He looked out over a val­ley blan­ket­ed in snow, dis­tant church bells chim­ing through the glit­ter­ing si­lence.

With­out re­al­iz­ing it, he was dig­ging his fin­gers in­to his arms as if he were try­ing to re­sist phys­ical pain. He had spilled his own blood more times than he could count; he had lost all bones in his right arm once; this jour­ney had al­ready giv­en him scars to his chest and fore­arm to join those on his hand and fore­head, but nev­er, un­til this mo­ment, had he felt him­self to be fa­tal­ly weak­ened, vul­ner­able, and naked, as though the best part of his mag­ical pow­er had been torn from him. He knew ex­act­ly what Hermione would say if he ex­pressed any of this: The wand is on­ly as good as the wiz­ard. But she was wrong, his case was dif­fer­ent. She had not felt the wand spin like the nee­dle of a com­pass and shoot gold­en flames at his en­emy. He had lost the pro­tec­tion of the twin cores, and on­ly now that it was gone did he re­al­ize how much he had been count­ing on it.

He pulled the pieces of the bro­ken wand out of his pock­et and, with­out look­ing at them, tucked them away in Ha­grid’s pouch around his neck. The pouch was now too full of bro­ken and use­less ob­jects to take any more. Har­ry’s hand brushed the old Snitch through the moke­skin and for a mo­ment he had to fight the temp­ta­tion to pull it out and throw it away. Im­pen­etra­ble, un­help­ful, use­less, like ev­ery­thing else Dum­ble­dore had left be­hind ---

And his fury at Dum­ble­dore broke over him now like la­va, scorch­ing him in­side, wip­ing out ev­ery oth­er feel­ing. Out of sheer des­per­ation they had talked them­selves in­to be­liev­ing that Go­dric’s Hol­low held an­swers, con­vinced them­selves that they were sup­posed to go back, that it was all part of some se­cret path laid out for them by Dum­ble­dore: but there was no map, no plan. Dum­ble­dore had left them to grope in the dark­ness, to wres­tle with un­known and un­dreamed-​of ter­rors, alone and un­aid­ed: Noth­ing was ex­plained, noth­ing was giv­en freely, they had no sword, and now, Har­ry had no wand. And he had dropped the pho­to­graph of the thief, and it would sure­ly be easy now for Volde­mort to find out who he was . . .

Volde­mort had all the in­for­ma­tion now . . .

“Har­ry?”

Hermione looked fright­ened that he might curse her with her own wand. Her face streaked with tears, she crouched down be­side him, two cups of tea trem­bling in her hands and some­thing bulky un­der her arm.

“Thanks,” he said, tak­ing one of the cups.

“Do you mind if I talk to you?”

“No,” he said be­cause he did not want to hurt her feel­ings.

“Har­ry, you want­ed to know who that man in the pic­ture was. Well . . . I’ve got the book.”

Timid­ly she pushed it on­to his lap, a pris­tine copy of The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.

“Where --- how --- ?”

“It was in Bathil­da’s sit­ting room, just ly­ing there. . . . This note was stick­ing out of the top of it.”

Hermione read the few lines of spiky, acid-​green writ­ing aloud.

“ ‘Dear Bal­ly, Thanks for your help. Here’s a copy of the book, hope you like it. You said ev­ery­thing, even if you don’t re­mem­ber it. Ri­ta.’ I think it must have ar­rived while the re­al Bathil­da was alive, but per­haps she wasn’t in any fit state to read it?”

“No, she prob­ably wasn’t.”

Har­ry looked down up­on Dum­ble­dore’s face and ex­pe­ri­enced a surge of sav­age plea­sure: Now he would know if all the things that Dum­ble­dore had nev­er thought it worth telling him, whether Dum­ble­dore want­ed him to or not.

“You’re still re­al­ly an­gry at me, aren’t you?” said Hermione; he looked up to see fresh tears leak­ing out of her eyes, and knew that his anger must have shown in his face.

“No,” he said qui­et­ly. “No, Hermione, I know it was an ac­ci­dent. You were try­ing to get us out of there alive, and you were in­cred­ible. I’d be dead if you hadn’t been there to help me.”

He tried to re­turn her wa­tery smile, then turned his at­ten­tion to the book. Its spine was stiff; it had clear­ly nev­er been opened be­fore. He rif­fled through the pages, look­ing for pho­tographs. He came across the one he sought al­most at once, the young Dum­ble­dore and his hand­some com­pan­ion, roar­ing with laugh­ter at some long-​for­got­ten joke. Har­ry dropped his eyes to the cap­tion.



Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, short­ly af­ter his moth­er’s death,

With his friend Gellert Grindel­wald.



Har­ry gaped at the last word for sev­er­al long mo­ments. Grindel­wald. His friend Grindel­wald. He looked side­ways at Hermione, who was still con­tem­plat­ing the name as though she could not be­lieve her eyes. Slow­ly she looked up at Har­ry.

“Grindel­wald!”

Ig­nor­ing the re­main­der of the pho­tographs, Har­ry searched the pages around them for a re­cur­rence of that fa­tal name. He soon dis­cov­ered it and read greed­ily, but be­came lost: It was nec­es­sary to go far­ther back to make sense of it all, and even­tu­al­ly he found him­self at the start of a chap­ter en­ti­tled “The Greater Good.” To­geth­er, he and Hermione start­ed to read:

Now ap­proach­ing his eigh­teenth birth­day, Dum­ble­dore left Hog­warts in a blaze of glo­ry --- Head Boy, Pre­fect, Win­ner of the Barnabus Fink­ley Prize for Ex­cep­tion­al Spell-​Cast­ing, British Youth Rep­re­sen­ta­tive to the Wiz­eng­amot, Gold Medal-​Win­ner for Ground-​Break­ing Con­tri­bu­tion to the In­ter­na­tion­al Al­chem­ical Con­fer­ence in Cairo . Dum­ble­dore in­tend­ed, next, to take a Grand Tour with El­phias “Dog­breath” Doge, the dim-​wit­ted but de­vot­ed side­kick he had picked up at school.

The two young men were stay­ing at the Leaky Caul­dron in Lon­don, prepar­ing to de­part for Greece the fol­low­ing morn­ing, when an owl ar­rived bear­ing news of Dum­ble­dore’s moth­er’s death. “Dog­breath” Doge, who re­fused to be in­ter­viewed for this book, has giv­en the pub­lic his own sen­ti­men­tal ver­sion of what hap­pened next. He rep­re­sents Kendra’s death as a trag­ic blow, and Dum­ble­dore’s de­ci­sion to give up his ex­pe­di­tion as an act of no­ble self-​sac­ri­fice.

Cer­tain­ly Dum­ble­dore re­turned to Go­dric’s Hol­low at once, sup­pos­ed­ly to “care” for his younger broth­er and sis­ter. But how much care did he ac­tu­al­ly give them?

“He were a head case, that Aber­forth,” said Enid Smeek, whose fam­ily lived on the out­skirts of Go­dric’s Hol­low at that time. “Ran wild. ‘Course, with his mum and dad gone you’d have felt sor­ry for him, on­ly he kept chuck­ing goat dung at my head. I don’t think Al­bus was fussed about him. I nev­er saw them to­geth­er, any­way.”

So what was Al­bus do­ing, if not com­fort­ing his wild young broth­er? The an­swer, it seems, is en­sur­ing the con­tin­ued im­pris­on­ment of his sis­ter. For though her first jail­er had died, there was no change in the piti­ful con­di­tion of Ar­iana Dum­ble­dore. Her very ex­is­tence con­tin­ued to be known on­ly to those few out­siders who, like “Dog­breath” Doge, could be count­ed up­on to be­lieve in the sto­ry of her “ill health.”

An­oth­er such eas­ily sat­is­fied friend of the fam­ily was Bathil­da Bagshot, the cel­ebrat­ed mag­ical his­to­ri­an who has lived in Go­dric’s Hol­low for many years. Kendra, of course, had re­buffed Bathil­da when she first at­tempt­ed to wel­come the fam­ily to the vil­lage. Sev­er­al years lat­er, how­ev­er, the au­thor sent an owl to Al­bus at Hog­warts, hav­ing been fa­vor­ably im­pressed by his pa­per on trans-​species trans­for­ma­tion in Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day. This ini­tial con­tract led to ac­quain­tance with the en­tire Dum­ble­dore fam­ily. At the time of Kendra’s death, Bathil­da was the on­ly per­son in Go­dric’s Hol­low who was on speak­ing terms with Dum­ble­dore’s moth­er.

Un­for­tu­nate­ly, the bril­liance that Bathil­da ex­hib­it­ed ear­li­er in her life has now dimmed. “The fire’s lit, but the caul­dron’s emp­ty,” as Ivor Dil­lons­by put it to me, or, in Enid Smeek’s slight­ly earth­ier phrase, “She’s nut­ty as squir­rel poo.” Nev­er­the­less, a com­bi­na­tion of tried-​and-​test­ed re­port­ing tech­niques en­abled me to ex­tract enough nuggets of hard fact to string to­geth­er the whole scan­dalous sto­ry.

Like the rest of the Wiz­ard­ing world, Bathil­da puts Kendra’s pre­ma­ture death down to a back­fir­ing charm, a sto­ry re­peat­ed by Al­bus and Aber­forth in lat­er years. Bathil­da al­so par­rots the fam­ily line on Ar­iana, call­ing her “frail” and “del­icate.” On one sub­ject, how­ev­er, Bathil­da is well worth the ef­fort I put in­to procur­ing Ver­itaserum, for she, and she alone, knows the full sto­ry of the best-​kept se­cret of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s life. Now re­vealed for the first time, it calls in­to ques­tion ev­ery­thing that his ad­mir­ers be­lieved of Dum­ble­dore: his sup­posed ha­tred of the Dark Arts, his op­po­si­tion in­to the op­pres­sion of Mug­gles, even his de­vo­tion to his own fam­ily.

The very same sum­mer that Dum­ble­dore went home to Go­dric’s Hol­low, now an or­phan and head of the fam­ily, Bathil­da Bagshot agreed to ac­cept in­to her home her great-​nephew, Gellert Grindel­wald.

The name of Grindel­wald is just­ly fa­mous: In a list of Most Dan­ger­ous Dark Wiz­ards of All Time, he would miss out on the top spot on­ly be­cause You-​Know-​Who ar­rived, a gen­er­ation lat­er, to steal his crown. As Grindel­wald nev­er ex­tend­ed his cam­paign of ter­ror to Britain, how­ev­er, the de­tails of his rise to pow­er are not wide­ly known here.

Ed­ucat­ed at Durm­strang, a school fa­mous even then for its un­for­tu­nate tol­er­ance of the Dark Arts, Grindel­wald showed him­self quite as pre­co­cious­ly bril­liant as Dum­ble­dore. Rather than chan­nel his abil­ities in­to the at­tain­ment of awards and prizes, how­ev­er, Gellert Grindel­wald de­vot­ed him­self no oth­er pur­suits. At six­teen years old, even Durm­strang felt it could no longer turn a blind eye to the twist­ed ex­per­iments of Gellert Grindel­wald, and he was ex­pelled.

Hith­er­to, all that has been known of Grindel­wald’s next move­ments is that he “trav­eled around for some months.” It can now be re­vealed that Grindel­wald chose to vis­it his great-​aunt in Go­dric’s Hol­low, and that there, in­tense­ly shock­ing though it will be for many to hear it, he struck up a close friend­ship with none oth­er than Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.

“He seemed a charm­ing boy to me,” bab­bles Bathil­da, “what­ev­er he be­came lat­er. Nat­ural­ly I in­tro­duced him to poor Al­bus, who was miss­ing the com­pa­ny of lads his own age. The boys took to each oth­er at once.”

They cer­tain­ly did. Bathil­da shows me a let­ter, kept by her that Al­bus Dum­ble­dore sent Gellert Grindel­wald in the dead of night.

“Yes, even af­ter they’d spent all day in dis­cus­sion --- both such bril­liant young boys, they got on like a caul­dron on fire --- I’d some­times hear an owl tap­ping at Gellert’s bed­room win­dow, de­liv­er­ing a let­ter from Al­bus! An idea would have struck him and he had to let Gellert know im­me­di­ate­ly!”

And what ideas they were. Pro­found­ly shock­ing though Al­bus Dum­ble­dore’s fans will find it, here are the thoughts of their sev­en­teen-​year-​old hero, as re­layed to his new best friend. (A copy of the orig­inal let­ter may be seen on page 463.)

Gellert ---

Your point about Wiz­ard dom­inance be­ing FOR THE MUG­GLES’ OWN GOOD --- this, I think, is the cru­cial point. Yes, we have been giv­en pow­er and yes, that pow­er gives us the right to rule, but it al­so gives us re­spon­si­bil­ities over the ruled. We must stress this point, it will be the foun­da­tion stone up­on which we build. Where we are op­posed, as we sure­ly will be, this must be the ba­sis of all our coun­ter­ar­gu­ments. We seize con­trol FOR THE GREATER GOOD. And from this it fol­lows that where we meet re­sis­tance, we must use on­ly the force that is nec­es­sary and no more. (This was your mis­take at Durm­strang! But I do not com­plain, be­cause if you had not been ex­pelled, we would nev­er have met.)

Al­bus

As­ton­ished and ap­palled though his many ad­mir­ers will be, this let­ter con­sti­tutes the Statute of Se­cre­cy and es­tab­lish­ing Wiz­ard rule over Mug­gles. What a blow for those who have al­ways por­trayed Dum­ble­dore as the Mug­gle-​borns’ great­est cham­pi­on! How hol­low those speech­es pro­mot­ing Mug­gle rights seem in the light of this damn­ing new ev­idence! How de­spi­ca­ble does Al­bus Dum­ble­dore ap­pear, busy plot­ting his rise to pow­er when he should have been mourn­ing his moth­er and car­ing for his sis­ter!

No doubt those de­ter­mined to keep Dum­ble­dore on his crum­bling pedestal will bleat that he did not, af­ter all, put his plans in­to ac­tion, that he must have suf­fered a change of heart, that he came to his sens­es. How­ev­er, the truth seems al­to­geth­er more shock­ing.

Bare­ly two months in­to their great new friend­ship, Dum­ble­dore and Grindel­wald part­ed, nev­er to see each oth­er again un­til they met for their leg­endary du­el (for more, see chap­ter 22). What caused this abrupt rup­ture? Had Dum­ble­dore come to his sens­es? Had he told Grindel­wald he want­ed no more part in his plans? Alas, no.

“It was poor lit­tle Ar­iana dy­ing, I think, that did it,” says Bathil­da. “It came as an aw­ful shock. Gellert was there in the house when it hap­pened, and he came back to my house all of a dither, told me he want­ed to go home the next day. Ter­ri­bly dis­tressed, you know. So I ar­ranged a Portkey and that was the last I saw of him.

“Al­bus was be­side him­self at Ar­iana’s death. It was so dread­ful for those two broth­ers. They had lost ev­ery­body ex­cept for each oth­er. No won­der tem­pers ran a lit­tle high. Aber­forth blamed Al­bus, you know, as peo­ple will un­der these dread­ful cir­cum­stances. But Aber­forth al­ways talked a lit­tle mad­ly, poor boy. All the same, break­ing Al­bus’s nose at the fu­ner­al was not de­cent. It would have de­stroyed Kendra to see her sons fight­ing like that, across her daugh­ter’s body. A shame Gellert could not have stayed for the fu­ner­al. . . . He would have been a com­fort to Al­bus, at least. . . . This dread­ful cof­fin-​side brawl, known on­ly to those few who at­tend­ed Ar­iana Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al, rais­es sev­er­al ques­tions. Why ex­act­ly did Aber­forth Dum­ble­dore blame Al­bus for his sis­ter’s death? Was it, as “Bat­ty” pre­tends, a mere ef­fu­sion of grief? Or could there have been some more con­crete rea­son for his fury? Grindel­wald, ex­pelled from Durm­strang for the near-​fa­tal at­tacks up­on fel­low stu­dents, fled the coun­try hours af­ter the girl’s death, and Al­bus (out of shame or fear?) nev­er saw him again, not un­til forced to do so by the pleas of the Wiz­ard­ing world.

Nei­ther Dum­ble­dore nor Grindel­wald ev­er seems to have re­ferred to this brief boy­hood friend­ship in lat­er life. How­ev­er, there can be no doubt that Dum­ble­dore de­layed, for some five years of tur­moil, fa­tal­ities, and dis­ap­pear­ances, his at­tack up­on Gellert Grindel­wald. Was it lin­ger­ing af­fec­tion for the man or fear of ex­po­sure as his once best friend that caused Dum­ble­dore to hes­itate? Was it on­ly re­luc­tant­ly that Dum­ble­dore set out to cap­ture the man he was once so de­light­ed he had met?

And how did the mys­te­ri­ous Ar­iana die? Was she the in­ad­ver­tent vic­tim of some Dark rite? Did she stum­ble across some­thing she ought not to have done, as the two young men sat prac­tic­ing for their at­tempt at glo­ry and dom­ina­tion? Is it pos­si­ble that Ar­iana Dum­ble­dore was the first per­son to die “for the greater good”?

The chap­ter end­ed here and Har­ry looked up. Hermione had reached the bot­tom of the page be­fore him. She tugged the book out of Har­ry’s hands, look­ing a lit­tle alarmed by his ex­pres­sion, and closed it with­out look­ing at it, as though hid­ing some­thing in­de­cent.

“Har­ry ---”

But he shook his head. Some in­ner cer­tain­ty had crashed down in­side him; it was ex­act­ly as he had felt af­ter Ron left. He had trust­ed Dum­ble­dore, be­lieved him the em­bod­iment of good­ness and wis­dom. All was ash­es: How much more could he lose? Ron, Dum­ble­dore, the phoenix wand . . .

“Har­ry.” She seemed to have heard his thoughts. “Lis­ten to me. It --- it doesn't make a very nice read­ing ---”

“Yeah, you could say that ---”

“--- but don't for­get, Har­ry, this is Ri­ta Skeeter writ­ing.”

“You did read that let­ter to Grindel­wald, didn't you?”

“Yes, I --- I did.” She hes­itat­ed, look­ing up­set, cradling her tea in her cold hands. “I think that's the worst bit. I know Bathil­da thought it was all just talk, but 'For the Greater Good' be­came Grindel­wald's slo­gan, his jus­ti­fi­ca­tion for all the atroc­ities he com­mit­ted lat­er. And . . . from that . . . it looks like Dum­ble­dore gave him the idea. They say 'For the Greater Good' was even carved over the en­trance to Nur­men­gard.”

“What's Nur­men­gard?”

“The prison Grindel­wald had built to hold his op­po­nents. He end­ed up in there him­self, once Dum­ble­dore had caught him. Any­way, it's --- it’s an aw­ful thought that Dum­ble­dore's ideas helped Grindel­wald rise to pow­er. But on the oth­er hand, even Ri­ta can't pre­tend that they knew each oth­er for more than a few months one sum­mer when they were both re­al­ly young, and ---”

“I thought you'd say that,” said Har­ry. He did not want to let his anger spill out at her, but it was hard to keep his voice steady. “I thought you'd say 'They were young.' They were the same age as we are now. And here we are, risk­ing our lives to fight the Dark Arts, and there he was, in a hud­dle with his new best friend, plot­ting their rise to pow­er over the Mug­gles.”

His tem­per would not re­main in check much longer: He stood up and walked around, try­ing to work some of it off.

“I'm not try­ing to de­fend what Dum­ble­dore wrote,” said Hermione. “All that 'right to rule' rub­bish, it's 'Mag­ic Is Might' all over again. But Har­ry, his moth­er had just died, he was stuck alone in the house ---”

“Alone? He wasn't alone! He had his broth­er and sis­ter for com­pa­ny, his Squib sis­ter he was keep­ing locked up ---”

“I don't be­lieve it,” said Hermione. She stood up too. “What­ev­er was wrong with that girl, I don't think she was a Squib. The Dum­ble­dore we knew would nev­er, ev­er have al­lowed---”

“The Dum­ble­dore we thought we knew didn't want to con­quer Mug­gles by force!” Har­ry shout­ed, his voice echo­ing across the emp­ty hill­top, and sev­er­al black­birds rose in­to the air, squawk­ing and spi­ral­ing against the pearly sky.

“He changed, Har­ry, he changed! It's as sim­ple as that! Maybe he did be­lieve these things when he was sev­en­teen, but the whole of the rest of his life was de­vot­ed to fight­ing the Dark Arts! Dum­ble­dore was the one who stopped Grindel­wald, the one who al­ways vot­ed for Mug­gle pro­tec­tion and Mug­gle born rights, who fought You-​Know-​Who from the start, and who died try­ing to bring him down!”

Ri­ta's book lay on the ground be­tween them, so that the face of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore smiled dole­ful­ly at both.

“Har­ry, I'm sor­ry, but I think the re­al rea­son you're so an­gry is that Dum­ble­dore nev­er told you any of this him­self.”

“Maybe I am!” Har­ry bel­lowed, and he flung his arms over his head, hard­ly know­ing whether he was try­ing to hold in his anger or pro­tect him­self from the weight of his own dis­il­lu­sion­ment. “Look what he asked from me, Hermione! Risk your life, Har­ry! And again! And again! And don't ex­pect me to ex­plain ev­ery­thing, just trust me blind­ly, trust that I know what I'm do­ing, trust me even though I don't trust you! Nev­er the whole truth! Nev­er!”

His voice cracked with the strain, and they stood look­ing at each oth­er in the white­ness and empti­ness, and Har­ry felt they were as in­signif­icant as in­sects be­neath that wide sky.

“He loved you,” Hermione whis­pered. “I know he loved you.”

Har­ry dropped his arms.

“I don't know who he loved, Hermione, but it was nev­er me. This isn't love, the mess he's left me in. He shared a damn sight more of what he was re­al­ly think­ing with Gellert Grindel­wald than he ev­er shared with me.”

Har­ry picked up Hermione's wand, which he had dropped in the snow, and sat back down in the en­trance of the tent.

“Thanks for the tea. I'll fin­ish the watch. You get back in the warm.”

She hes­itat­ed, but rec­og­nized the dis­missal. She picked up the book and then walked back past him in­to the tent, but as she did so, she brushed the top of his head light­ly with her hand. He closed his eyes at her touch, and hat­ed him­self for wish­ing that what she said was true: that Dum­ble­dore had re­al­ly cared.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER NINETEEN


THE SIL­VER DOE



It was snow­ing by the time Hermione took over the watch at mid­night. Har­ry's dreams were con­fused and dis­turb­ing: Nagi­ni wove in and out of them, first through a wreath of Christ­mas ros­es. He woke re­peat­ed­ly, pan­icky, con­vinced that some­body had called out to him in the dis­tance, imag­in­ing that the wind whip­ping around the tent was foot­steps or voic­es.

Fi­nal­ly he got up in the dark­ness and joined Hermione, who was hud­dled in the en­trance to the tent read­ing A His­to­ry of Mag­ic by the light of her wand. The snow was falling thick­ly, and she greet­ed with re­lief his sug­ges­tion of pack­ing up ear­ly and mov­ing on.

“We'll some­where more shel­tered,” she agreed, shiv­er­ing as she pulled on a sweat­shirt over her pa­ja­mas. “I kept think­ing I could hear peo­ple mov­ing out­side. I even though I saw some­body one or twice.”

Har­ry paused in the act of pulling on a jumper and glanced at the silent, mo­tion­less Sneako­scope on the ta­ble.

“I'm sure I imag­ined it,” said Hermione, look­ing ner­vous. “The snow the dark, it plays tricks on your eyes.... But per­haps we ought to Dis­ap­pa­rate un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, just in case?”

Half an hour lat­er, with the tent packed, Har­ry wear­ing the Hor­crux, and Hermione clutch­ing the bead­ed bag, they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed. The usu­al tight­ness en­gulfed them; Har­ry's feet part­ed com­pa­ny with the snowy ground, then slammed hard on­to what felt like frozen earth cov­ered in leaves.

“Where are we?” he asked, peer­ing around at the fresh mass of trees as Hermione opened the bead­ed bag and be­gan tug­ging out the tent poles.

“The For­est of Dean,” she said, “I came camp­ing here once with my mum and dad.”

Here too snow lay on the trees all around and it was bit­ter­ly cold, but they were at least pro­tect­ed from the wind. They spent most of the day in­side the tent, hud­dled for warmth around the use­ful bright blue flames that Hermione was adept at pro­duc­ing, and which could be scooped up and car­ried in a jar. Har­ry felt as though he was re­cu­per­at­ing from some brief but se­vere, an im­pres­sion re­in­forced by Hermione's so­lic­itous­ness. That af­ter­noon fresh flakes drift­ed down up­on them, so that even their shel­tered clear­ing had a fresh dust­ing of pow­dery snow.

Af­ter two nights of lit­tle sleep, Har­ry's sens­es seemed more alert than usu­al. Their es­cape from Go­dric's Hol­low had been so nar­row that Volde­mort seemed some­how clos­er than be­fore, more threat­en­ing. As dark­ness drove in again Har­ry re­fused Hermione's of­fer to keep watch and told her to go to bed.

Har­ry moved an old cush­ion in­to the tent mouth and sat down, wear­ing all the sweaters he owned but even so, still shiv­ery. The dark­ness deep­ened with the pass­ing hours un­til it was vir­tu­al­ly im­pen­etra­ble. He was on the point of tak­ing out the Ma­raud­er's Map, so as to watch Gin­ny's dot for a while, be­fore he re­mem­bered that it was the Christ­mas hol­idays and that she would be back at the Bur­row.

Ev­ery tiny move­ment seemed mag­ni­fied in the vast­ness of the for­est. Har­ry knew that it must be full of liv­ing crea­tures, but he wished they would all re­main still and silent so that he could sep­arate their in­no­cent scur­ry­ings and prowl­ings from nois­es that might pro­claim oth­er, sin­is­ter move­ments. He re­mem­bered the sound of a cloak slith­er­ing over dead leaves many years ago, and at once thought he heard it again be­fore men­tal­ly shak­ing him­self. Their pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments had worked for weeks; why should they break now? And yet he could no throw off the feel­ing that some­thing was dif­fer­ent tonight.

Sev­er­al times he jerked up­right, his neck aching be­cause he had fall­en asleep, slumped at an awk­ward an­gle against the side of the tent. The night reached such a depth of vel­vety black­ness that he might have been sus­pend­ed in lim­bo be­tween Dis­ap­pa­ra­tion and Ap­pa­ra­tion. He had just held a hand in front of his face to see whether he could make out his fin­gers when it hap­pened.

A bright sil­ver light ap­peared right ahead of him, mov­ing through the trees. What­ev­er the source, it was mov­ing sound­less­ly. The light seemed sim­ply to drift to­ward him.

He jumped to his feet, his voice frozen in his throat, and raised Hermione's wand. He screwed up his eyes as the light be­came blind­ing, the trees in front of it pitch black in sil­hou­ette, and still the thing came clos­er....

And then the source of the light stepped out from be­hind an oak. It was a sil­ver white doe, moon-​bright and daz­zling, pick­ing her way over the ground, still silent, and leav­ing no hoof­prints in the fine pow­der­ing of snow. She stepped to­ward him, her beau­ti­ful head with its wide, long-​lashed eyes held high.

Har­ry stared at the crea­ture, filled with won­der, not at her strangeness, but her in­ex­pli­ca­ble fa­mil­iar­ity. He felt that he had been wait­ing for her to come, but that he had for­got­ten, un­til this mo­ment, that they had ar­ranged to meet. His im­pulse to shout for Hermione, which had been so strong a mo­ment ago, had gone. He knew, he would have staked his life on it, that she had come for him, and him alone.

They gazed at each oth­er for sev­er­al long mo­ments and then she turned and walked away.

“No,” he said, and his voice was cracked with lack of use. “Come back!”

She con­tin­ued to step de­lib­er­ate­ly through the trees, and soon he bright­ness was striped by their thick black trunks. For one trem­bling sec­ond he hes­itat­ed. Cau­tion mur­mured it could be a trick, a lure, a trap. But in­stinct, over­whelm­ing in­stinct, told him that this was not Dark Mag­ic. He set off in pur­suit.

Snow crunched be­neath his feet, but the doe made no noise as she passed through the trees, for she was noth­ing but light. Deep­er and deep­er in­to the for­est she led him, and Har­ry walked quick­ly, sure that when she stopped, she would al­low him to ap­proach her prop­er­ly. And then she would speak and the voice would tell him what he need­ed to know.

At last she came to a halt. She turned her beau­ti­ful head to­ward him once more, and he broke in­to a run, a ques­tion burn­ing in him, but as he opened his lips to ask it, she van­ished.

Though the dark­ness had swal­lowed her whole, her bur­nished im­age was still im­print­ed on his reti­nas; it ob­scured his vi­sion, bright­en­ing when he low­ered his eye­lids, dis­ori­ent­ing him. Now fear came: Her pres­ence had meant safe­ty.

“Lu­mos!” he whis­pered, and the wand-​tip ig­nit­ed.

The im­print of the doe fad­ed away with ev­ery blink of his eyes as he stood there, lis­ten­ing to the sounds of the for­est, to dis­tant crack­les of twigs, soft swish­es of snow. Was he about to be at­tacked? Had she en­ticed him in­to an am­bush? Was he imag­in­ing that some­body stood be­yond the reach of the wan­dlight, watch­ing him?

He held the wand high­er. No­body ran out at him, no flash of green light burst from be­hind a tree. Why, then, had she led him to this spot?

Some­thing gleamed in the light of the wand, and Har­ry spun about, but all that was there was a small, frozen pool, its black, cracked sur­face glit­ter­ing as he raised his wand high­er to ex­am­ine it.

He moved for­ward rather cau­tious­ly and looked down. The ice re­flect­ed his dis­tort­ed shad­ow and the beam of wan­dlight, but deep be­low the thick, misty gray cara­pace, some­thing else glint­ed. A great sil­ver cross...

His heart skipped in­to his mouth: He dropped to his knees at the pool's edge and an­gled the wand so as to flood the bot­tom of the pool with as much light as pos­si­ble. A glint of deep red...It was a sword with glit­ter­ing ru­bies in its hilt....The sword of Gryffind­or was ly­ing at the bot­tom of the for­est pool.

Bare­ly breath­ing, he stared down at it. How was this pos­si­ble? How could it have come to be ly­ing in a for­est pool, this close to the place where they were camp­ing? Had some un­known mag­ic drawn Hermione to this spot, or was the doe, which he had tak­en to be a Pa­tronus, some kind of guardian of the pool? Or had the sword been put in­to the pool af­ter they had ar­rived, pre­cise­ly be­cause they were here? In which case, where was the per­son who want­ed to pass it to Har­ry? Again he di­rect­ed the wand at the sur­round­ing trees and bush­es, search­ing for a hu­man out­line, for the glint of an eye, but he could not see any­one there. All the same, a lit­tle more fear leav­ened his ex­hil­ara­tion as he re­turned his at­ten­tion to the sword repos­ing up­on the bot­tom of the frozen pool.

He point­ed the wand at the sil­very shape and mur­mured, “Ac­cio Sword.”

It did not stir. He had not ex­pect­ed it to. If it had been that easy the sword would have lain on the ground for him to pick up, not in the depths of a frozen pool. He set off around the cir­cle of ice, think­ing hard about the last time the sword had de­liv­ered it­self to him. He had been in ter­ri­ble dan­ger then, and had asked for help.

“Help,” he mur­mured, but the sword re­mained up­on the pool bot­tom, in­dif­fer­ent, mo­tion­less.

What was it, Har­ry asked him­self (walk­ing again), that Dum­ble­dore had told him the last time he had re­trieved the sword? On­ly a true Gryffind­or could have pulled that out of the hat. And what were the qual­ities that de­fined a Gryffind­or? A small voice in­side Har­ry's head an­swered him: Their dar­ing nerve and chival­ry set Gryffind­or apart.

Har­ry stopped walk­ing and let out a long sigh, his smoky breath dis­pers­ing rapid­ly up­on the frozen air. He knew what he had to do. If he was hon­est with him­self, he had thought it might come to this from the mo­ment he had spot­ted the sword through the ice.

He glanced around at the sur­round­ing trees again, but was con­vinced now that no­body was go­ing to at­tack him. They had had their chance as he walked alone through the for­est, had had plen­ty of op­por­tu­ni­ty as he ex­am­ined the pool. The on­ly rea­son to de­lay at this point was be­cause the im­me­di­ate prospect was so deeply un­invit­ing.

With fum­bling fin­gers Har­ry start­ed to re­move his many lay­ers of cloth­ing. Where “chival­ry” en­tered in­to this, he thought rue­ful­ly, he was not en­tire­ly sure, un­less it count­ed as chival­rous that he was not call­ing for Hermione to do it in his stead.

An owl hoot­ed some­where as he stripped off, and he thought with a pang of Hed­wig. He was shiv­er­ing now, his teeth chat­ter­ing hor­ri­bly, and yet he con­tin­ued to strip off un­til at last he stood there in his un­der­wear, bare­foot­ed in the snow. He placed the pouch con­tain­ing his wand, his moth­er's let­ter, the shard of Sir­ius's mir­ror, and the old Snitch on top of his clothes, then he point­ed Hermione's wand at the ice.

“Diffin­do.”

It cracked with a sound like a bul­let in the si­lence. The sur­face of the pool broke and chunks of dark ice rocked on the ruf­fled wa­ter. As far as Har­ry could judge, it was not deep, but to re­trieve the sword he would have to sub­merge him­self com­plete­ly.

Con­tem­plat­ing the task ahead would not make it eas­ier or the wa­ter warmer. He stepped to the pool's edge and placed Hermione's wand on the ground still lit. Then, try­ing not to imag­ine how much cold­er he was about to be­come or how vi­olent­ly he would soon be shiv­er­ing, he jumped.

Ev­ery pore of his body screamed in protest. The very air in his lungs seemed to freeze sol­id as he was sub­merged to his shoul­ders in the frozen wa­ter. He could hard­ly breathe: trem­bling so vi­olent­ly the wa­ter lapped over the edges of the pool, he felt for the blade with his numb feet. He on­ly want­ed to dive once.

Har­ry put off the mo­ment of to­tal sub­mer­sion from sec­ond to sec­ond, gasp­ing and shak­ing, un­til he told him­self that it must be done, gath­ered all his courage, and dived.

The cold was agony: It at­tacked him like fire. His brain it­self seemed to have frozen as he pushed through the dark wa­ter to the bot­tom and reached out, grop­ing for the sword. His fin­gers closed around the hilt; he pulled it up­ward.

Then some­thing closed tight around his neck. He thought of wa­ter weeds, though noth­ing had brushed him as he dived, and raised his hand to free him­self. It was not weed: The chain of the Hor­crux had tight­ened and was slow­ly con­strict­ing his wind­pipe.

Har­ry kicked out wild­ly, try­ing to push him­self back to the sur­face, but mere­ly pro­pelled him­self in­to the rocky side of the pool. Thrash­ing, suf­fo­cat­ing, he scrab­bled at the stran­gling chain, his frozen fin­gers un­able to loosen it, and now lit­tle lights were pop­ping in­side his head, and he was go­ing to drown, there was noth­ing left, noth­ing he could do, and the arms that closed around his chest were sure­ly Death's....

Chok­ing and retch­ing, soak­ing and cold­er than he had ev­er been in his life, he came to face­down in the snow. Some­where, close by, an­oth­er per­son was pant­ing and cough­ing and stag­ger­ing around, as she had come when the snake at­tacked....Yet it did not sound like her, not with those deep coughs, no judg­ing by the weight of the foot­steps....

Har­ry had no strength to lift his head and see his sav­ior's iden­ti­ty. All he could do was raise a shak­ing hand to his throat and feel the place where the lock­et had cut tight­ly in­to his flesh. It was gone. Some­one had cut him free. Then a pant­ing voice spoke from over his head.

“Are -- you -- men­tal?”

Noth­ing but the shock of hear­ing that voice could have giv­en Har­ry the strength to get up. Shiv­er­ing vi­olent­ly, he stag­gered to his feet. There be­fore him stood Ron, ful­ly dressed but drenched to the skin, his hair plas­tered to his face, the sword of Gryffind­or in one hand and the Hor­crux dan­gling from its bro­ken chain in the oth­er.

“Why the hell,” pant­ed Ron, hold­ing up the Hor­crux, which swung back­ward and for­ward on its short­ened chain in some par­ody of hyp­no­sis, “didn't you take the thing off be­fore you dived?”

Har­ry could not an­swer. The sil­ver doe was noth­ing, noth­ing com­pared with Ron's reap­pear­ance; he could not be­lieve it. Shud­der­ing with cold, he caught up the pile of clothes still ly­ing at the wa­ter's edge and be­gan to pull them on. As he dragged sweater af­ter sweater over his head, Har­ry stared at Ron, half ex­pect­ing him to have dis­ap­peared ev­ery time he lost sight of him, and yet he had to be re­al: He had just dived in­to the pool, he had saved Har­ry's life.

“It was y-​you?” Har­ry said at last, his teeth chat­ter­ing, his voice weak­er than usu­al due to his near-​stran­gu­la­tion.

“Well, yeah,” said Ron, look­ing slight­ly con­fused.

“Y-​you cast that doe?”

“What? No, of course not! I thought it was you do­ing it!”

“My Pa­tronus is a stag.”

“Oh yeah. I thought it looked dif­fer­ent. No antlers.”

Har­ry put Ha­grid's pouch back around his neck, pulled on a fi­nal sweater, stooped to pick up Hermione's wand, and faced Ron again.

“How come you're here?”

Ap­par­ent­ly Ron had hoped that this point would come up lat­er, if at all.

“Well, I've -- you know -- I've come back. If --” He cleared his throat. “You know. You still want me.”

There was a pause, in which the sub­ject of Ron's de­par­ture seemed to rise like a wall be­tween them. Yet he was here. He had re­turned. He had just saved Har­ry's life.

Ron looked down at his hands. He seemed mo­men­tar­ily sur­prised to see the things he was hold­ing.

“Oh yeah, I got it out,” he said, rather un­nec­es­sar­ily, hold­ing up the sword for Har­ry's in­spec­tion. “That's why you jumped in, right?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “But I don't un­der­stand. How did you get here? How did you find us?”

“Long sto­ry,” said Ron. “I've been look­ing for you for hours, it's a big for­est, isn't it? And I was just think­ing I'd have to go kip un­der a tree and wait for morn­ing when I saw that dear com­ing and you fol­low­ing.”

“You didn't see any­one else?”

“No,” said Ron. “I --”

But he hes­itat­ed, glanc­ing at two trees grow­ing close to­geth­er some yards away.

“I did think I saw some­thing move over there, but I was run­ning to the pool at the time, be­cause you'd gone in and you hadn't come up, so I wasn't go­ing to make a de­tour to -- hey!”

Har­ry was al­ready hur­ry­ing to the place that Ron had in­di­cat­ed. The two oaks grew close to­geth­er; there was a gap of on­ly a few inch­es be­tween the trunks at eye lev­el, an ide­al place to see but not be seen. The ground around the roots, how­ev­er, was free of snow, and Har­ry could see no sign of foot­prints. He walked back to where Ron stood wait­ing, still hold­ing the sword and the Hor­crux.

“Any­thing there?” Ron asked.

“No,” said Har­ry.

“So how did the sword get in that pool?”

“Who­ev­er cast the Pa­tronus must have put it there.”

They both looked at the or­nate sil­ver sword, its ru­bied hilt glint­ing a lit­tle in the light from Hermione's wand.

“You reck­on this is the re­al one?” asked Ron.

“One way to find out, isn't there?” said Har­ry.

The Hor­crux was still swing­ing from Ron's hand. The lock­et was twitch­ing slight­ly. Har­ry knew that the thing in­side it was ag­itat­ed again. It had sensed the pres­ence of the sword and had tried to kill Har­ry rather than let him pos­sess it. Now was not the time for long dis­cus­sions; now was the mo­ment to de­stroy once and for all. Har­ry looked around, hold­ing Hermione's wand high, and saw the place: a flat­tish rock ly­ing in the shad­ow of a sycamore tree.

“Come here.” he said and he led the way, brushed snow from the rock's sur­face, and held out his hand for the Hor­crux. When Ron of­fered the sword, how­ev­er, Har­ry shook his head.

“No you should do it.”

“Me?” said Ron, look­ing shocked. “Why?”

“Be­cause you got the sword out of the pool. I think it's sup­posed to be you.”

He was not be­ing kind or gen­er­ous. As cer­tain­ly as he had known that the doe was be­nign, he knew that Ron had to be the one to wield the sword. Dum­ble­dore had at least taught Har­ry some­thing about cer­tain kinds of mag­ic, of the in­cal­cu­la­ble pow­er of cer­tain acts.

“I'm go­ing to open it,” said Har­ry, “and you will stab it. Straight­away okay? Be­cause what­ev­er's in there will put up a fight. The bit of Rid­dle in the Di­ary tried to kill me.”

“How are you go­ing to open it?” asked Ron. He looked ter­ri­fied

“I'm go­ing to ask it to open, us­ing Parsel­tongue,” said Har­ry. The an­swer came so read­ily to his lips that thought that he had al­ways known it deep down: Per­haps it had tak­en his re­cent en­counter with Nagi­ni to make him re­al­ize it. He looked at the ser­pen­tine S, in­laid with glit­ter­ing green stones: It was easy to vi­su­al­ize it as a minis­cule snake, curled up­on the cold rock.

“No!” said Ron. “Don't open it! I'm se­ri­ous!”

“Why not?” asked Har­ry. “Let's get rid of the damn thing, it's been months --”

“I can't, Har­ry, I'm se­ri­ous -- you do it --”

“But why?”

“Be­cause that thing's bad for me!” said Ron, back­ing away from the lock­et on the rock. “I can't han­dle it! I'm not mak­ing ex­cus­es, for what I was like, but it af­fects me worse than it af­fects you and Hermione, it made me think stuff -- stuff that I was think­ing any­way, but it made ev­ery­thing worse. I can't ex­plain it, and then I'd take it off and I'd get my head straight again, and then I'd have to put the eff­ing thing back on -- I can't do it Har­ry!”

He had backed away, the sword drag­ging at his side, shak­ing his head.

“You can do it,” said Har­ry, “you can! You've just got the sword, I know it's sup­posed to be you who us­es it. Please just get rid of it Ron.”

The sound of his name seemed to act like a stim­ulant. Ron swal­lowed, then still breath­ing hard through his long nose, moved back to­ward the rock.

“Tell me when,” he croaked.

“On three,” said Har­ry, look­ing back down at the lock­et and nar­row­ing his eyes, con­cen­trat­ing on the let­ter S, imag­in­ing a ser­pent, while the con­tents of the lock­et rat­tled like a trapped cock­roach. It would have been easy to pity it, ex­cept that the cut around Har­ry's neck still burned.

“One . . . two . . . three . . .open.”

The last word came as a hiss and a snarl and the gold­en doors of the lock­et swung wide open with a lit­tle click.

Be­hind both of the glass win­dows with­in blinked a liv­ing eye, dark and hand­some as Tom Rid­dle's eyes had been be­fore he turned them scar­let and slit-​pupiled

“Stab,” said Har­ry, hold­ing the lock­et steady on the rock.

Ron raised the sword in his shak­ing hands: The point dan­gled over the fran­ti­cal­ly swivel­ing eyes, and Har­ry gripped the lock­et tight­ly, brac­ing him­self, al­ready imag­in­ing blood pour­ing from the emp­ty win­dows.

Then a voice hissed from out the Hor­crux.

“I have seen your heart, and it is mine.”

“Don't lis­ten to it!” Har­ry said harsh­ly. “Stab it!”

“I have seen your dreams, Ronald Weasley, and I have seen your fears. All you de­sire is pos­si­ble, but all that you dread is al­so pos­si­ble....”

“Stab!” shout­ed Har­ry, his voice echoed off the sur­round­ing trees, the sword point trem­bled, and Ron gazed down in­to Rid­dle's eyes.

“Least loved, al­ways, by the moth­er who craved a daugh­ter . . . Least loved, now, by the girl who prefers your friend . . . Sec­ond best, al­ways, eter­nal­ly over­shad­owed . . .”

“Ron, stab it now!” Har­ry bel­lowed: He could feel the lock­et quiv­er­ing in the grip and was scared of what was com­ing. Ron raised the sword still high­er, and as he did so, Rid­dle's eyes gleamed scar­let.

Out of the lock­et's two win­dows, out of the eyes, there bloomed like two grotesque bub­bles, the heads of Har­ry and Hermione, weird­ly dis­tort­ed.



Ron yelled in shock and backed away as the fig­ures blos­somed out of the lock­et, first chests, then waists, then legs, un­til they stood in the lock­et, side by side like trees with a com­mon root, sway­ing over Ron and the re­al Har­ry, who had snatched his fin­gers away from the lock­et as it burned, sud­den­ly, white-​hot.



“Ron!” he shout­ed, but the Rid­dle-​Har­ry was now speak­ing with Volde­mort's voice and Ron was gaz­ing, mes­mer­ized, in­to its face.



“Why re­turn? We were bet­ter with­out you, hap­pi­er with­out you, glad of your ab­sence.... We laughed at your stu­pid­ity, your cow­ardice, your pre­sump­tion--”



“Pre­sump­tion!” echoed the Rid­dle-​Hermione, who was more beau­ti­ful and yet more ter­ri­ble than the re­al Hermione: She swayed, cack­ling, be­fore Ron, who looked hor­ri­fied, yet trans­fixed, the sword hang­ing point­less­ly at his side. “Who could look at you, who would ev­er look at you, be­side Har­ry Pot­ter? What have you ev­er done, com­pared with the Cho­sen One? What are you, com­pared with the Boy Who Lived?”



“Ron, stab it, STAB IT!” Har­ry yelled, but Ron did not move. His eyes were wide, and the Rid­dle-​Har­ry and the Rid­dle-​Hermione were re­flect­ed in them, their hair swirling like flames, their eyes shin­ing red, their voic­es lift­ed in an evil duet.



“Your moth­er con­fessed,” sneered Rid­dle-​Har­ry, while Rid­dle-​Hermione jeered, “that she would have pre­ferred me as a son, would be glad to ex­change...”



“Who wouldn't pre­fer him, what wom­an would take you, you are noth­ing, noth­ing, noth­ing to him,” crooned Rid­dle-​Hermione, and she stretched like a snake and en­twined her­self around Rid­dle-​Har­ry, wrap­ping him in a close em­brace: Their lips met.

On the ground in front of them, Ron's face filled with an­guish. he raised the sword high, his arms shak­ing.

“Do it, Ron!” Har­ry yelled.

Ron looked to­ward him, and Har­ry thought he saw a trace of scar­let in his eyes.

“Ron --?”



The sword flashed, plunged: Har­ry threw him­self out of the way, there as a clang of met­al and a long, drawn-​out scream. Har­ry whirled around, slip­ping in the snow, wand held ready to de­fend him­self, but there was noth­ing to fight.



The mon­strous ver­sions of him­self and Hermione were gone: There was on­ly Ron, stand­ing there with the sword held slack­ly in his hand, look­ing down at the shat­tered re­mains of the lock­et on the flat rock.



Slow­ly, Har­ry walked back to him, hard­ly know­ing what to say or do. Ron was breath­ing heav­ily: His eyes were no longer red at all, but their nor­mal blue: they were al­so wet.

Har­ry stooped, pre­tend­ing he had not seen, and picked up the bro­ken Hor­crux. Ron had pierced the glass in both win­dows: Rid­dle's eyes were gone, and the stained silk lin­ing of the lock­et was smok­ing slight­ly. The thing that had lived in the Hor­crux had van­ished; tor­tur­ing Ron had been its fi­nal act. The sword clanged as Ron dropped it. He had sunk to his knees, his head in his arms. He was shak­ing, but not, Har­ry re­al­ized, from cold. Har­ry crammed the bro­ken lock­et in­to his pock­et, knelt down be­side Ron, and placed a hand cau­tious­ly on his shoul­der. He took it as a good sign that Ron did not throw it off.



“Af­ter you left,” he said in a low voice, grate­ful for the fact that Ron's face was hid­den, “she cried for a week. Prob­ably longer, on­ly she didn't want me to see. There were loads of nights when we nev­er even spoke to each oth­er. With you gone...”



He could not fin­ish; it was now that Ron was here again that Har­ry ful­ly re­al­ized how much his ab­sence had cost them.



“She's like my sis­ter,” he went on. “I love her like a sis­ter and I reck­on that she feels the same way about me. It's al­ways been like that. I thought you knew.”



Ron did not re­spond, but turned his face away from Har­ry and wiped his nose nois­ily on his sleeve. Har­ry got to his feet again and walked to where Ron's enor­mous ruck­sack lay yards away, dis­card­ed as Ron had run to­ward the pool to save Har­ry from drown­ing. He hoist­ed it on­to his own back and walked back to Ron, who clam­bered to his feet as Har­ry ap­proached, eyes blood­shot but oth­er­wise com­posed.



“I'm sor­ry,” he said in a thick voice. “I'm sor­ry I left. I know I was a -- a --”



He looked around at the dark­ness, as if hop­ing a bad enough word would swoop down up­on him and claim him.



“You've sort of made up for it tonight,” said Har­ry. “Get­ting the sword. Fin­ish­ing off the Hor­crux. Sav­ing my life.”



“That makes me sound a lot cool­er than I was,” Ron mum­bled.



“Stuff like that al­ways sounds cool­er than it re­al­ly was” said Har­ry. “I've been try­ing to tell you that for years.”



Si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly they walked for­ward and hugged, Har­ry grip­ping the still-​sop­ping back of Ron's jack­et.



“And now,” said Har­ry as they broke apart, “all we've got to do is find that tent again.”



But it was not dif­fi­cult. Though the walk through the dark for­est with the doe had seemed lengthy, with Ron by his side, the jour­ney back seemed to take a sur­pris­ing­ly short time. Har­ry could not wait to wake Hermione, and it was with quick­en­ing ex­cite­ment that he en­tered the tent, Ron lag­ging a lit­tle be­hind him.



It was glo­ri­ous­ly warm af­ter the pool and the for­est, the on­ly il­lu­mi­na­tion the blue­bell flames still shim­mer­ing in a bowl on the floor. Hermione was fast asleep, curled up un­der her blan­kets, and did not move un­til Har­ry had said her name sev­er­al times.



“Hermione!”



She stirred, then sat up quick­ly, push­ing her hair out of her face.

“What's wrong? Har­ry? Are you all right?”



“It's okay, ev­ery­thing's fine. More than fine, I'm great. There's some­one here.”



“What do you mean? Who --?”

She saw Ron, who stood there hold­ing the sword and drip­ping on­to the thread­bare car­pet. Har­ry backed in­to a shad­owy cor­ner, slipped off Ron's ruck­sack, and at­tempt­ed to blend in with the can­vas.

Hermione slid out of her bunk and moved like a sleep­walk­er to­ward Ron, her eyes up­on his pale face. She stopped right in front of him, her lips slight­ly part­ed, her eyes wide. Ron gave a weak hope­ful smile and half raised his arms.

Hermione launched her­self for­ward and start­ed punch­ing ev­ery inch of him that she could reach.

“Ouch -- ow -- ger­roff! What the --? Hermione -- OW!”

“You -- com­plete -- ar­se -- Ronald -- Weasley!”

She punc­tu­at­ed ev­ery word with a blow: Ron backed away, shield­ing his head as Hermione ad­vanced.

“You -- crawl -- back -- here -- af­ter -- weeks -- and -- weeks -- oh, where's my wand?”

She looked as though ready to wres­tle it out of Har­ry's hands and he re­act­ed in­stinc­tive­ly.

“Pro­tego!”

The in­vis­ible shield erupt­ed be­tween Ron and Hermione. The force of it knocked her back­ward on­to the floor. Spit­ting hair out of her mouth, she lept up again.

“Hermione!” said Har­ry. “Calm --”



“I will not calm down!” she screamed. Nev­er be­fore had he seen her lose con­trol like this; she looked quite de­ment­ed. “Give me back my wand! Give it back to me!”

“Hermione, will you please --”

“Don't you tell me what do, Har­ry Pot­ter!” she screeched. “Don't you dare! Give it back now! And YOU!”

She was point­ing at Ron in dire ac­cu­sa­tion: It was like a male­dic­tion, and Har­ry could not blame Ron for re­treat­ing sev­er­al steps.

“I cam run­ning af­ter you! I called you! I begged you to come back” “I know,” Ron said, “Hermione, I'm sor­ry, I'm re­al­ly --”



“Oh, you're sor­ry!”

She laughed a high-​pitched, out-​of-​con­trol sound; Ron looked at Har­ry for help, but Har­ry mere­ly gri­maced his help­less­ness.

“You came back af­ter weeks -- weeks -- and you think it's all go­ing to be all right if you just say sor­ry?”

“Well, what else can I say?” Ron shout­ed, and Har­ry was glad that Ron was fight­ing back.

“Oh, I don't know!” yelled Hermione with aw­ful sar­casm. “Rack your brains, Ron, that should on­ly take a cou­ple of sec­onds --”

“Hermione,” in­ter­ject­ed Har­ry, who con­sid­ered this a low blow, “he just saved my --”

“I don't care!” she screamed. “I don't care what he's done! Weeks and weeks, we could have been dead for all he knew --”

“I knew you weren't dead!” bel­lowed Ron, drown­ing her voice for the first time, and ap­proach­ing as close as he could with the Shield Charm be­tween them. “Har­ry's all over the Prophet, all over the ra­dio, they're look­ing for you ev­ery­where, all these ru­mors and men­tal sto­ries, I knew I'd hear straight off if you were dead, you don't know what it's been like --”

"What it's been like for you??

Her voice was not so shrill on­ly bats would be able to hear it soon, but she had reached a lev­el of in­dig­na­tion that ren­dered her tem­porar­ily speech­less, and Ron seized his op­por­tu­ni­ty.

“I want­ed to come back the minute I'd Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, but I walked straight in­to a gang of Snatch­ers, Hermione, and I couldn't go any­where!” “A gang of what?” asked Har­ry, as Hermione threw her­self down in­to a chair with her arms and legs crossed so tight­ly it seemed un­like­ly that she would un­rav­el them for sev­er­al years.

“Snatch­ers,” said Ron. “They're ev­ery­where -- gangs try­ing to earn gold by round­ing up Mug­gle-​borns and blood traitors, there's a re­ward from the Min­istry for ev­ery­one cap­tured. I was on my own and I look like I might be school age; they got re­al­ly ex­cit­ed, thought I was a Mug­gle-​born in hid­ing. I had to talk fast to get out of be­ing dragged to the Min­istry.”

“What did you say to them?” “Told them I was Stan Shun­pike. First per­son I could think of.” “And they be­lieved that?” “They weren't the bright­est. One of them was def­inite­ly part troll, the smell of him....”

Ron glanced at Hermione, clear­ly hope­ful she might soft­en at this small in­stance of hu­mor, but her ex­pres­sion re­mained stony above her tight­ly knot­ted limbs.

“Any­way, they had a row about whether I was Stan or not. It was a bit pa­thet­ic to be hon­est, but there were still five of them and on­ly one of me, and they'd tak­en my wand. Then two of them got in­to a fight and while the oth­ers were dis­tract­ed I man­aged to hit the one hold­ing me in the stom­ach, grabbed his wand, Dis­armed the bloke hold­ing mine, and Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed. I didn't do it so well. Splinched my­self again” -- Ron held up his right hand to show two miss­ing fin­ger­nails: Hermione raised her eye­brows cold­ly -- “and I came out miles from where you were. By the time I got back to that bit of river­bank where we'd been ... you were gone.”

“Gosh, what a grip­ping sto­ry,” Hermione said in the lofty voice she adopt­ed when wish­ing to wound. “You must have been sim­ply ter­ri­fied. Mean­while we went to Go­dric's Hol­low and, let's think, what hap­pened there, Har­ry? Oh yes, You-​Know-​Who's snake turned up, it near­ly killed both of us, and then You-​Know-​Who him­self ar­rived and missed us by about a sec­ond.” “What?” Ron said, gap­ing from her to Har­ry, but Hermione ig­nored him.

“Imag­ine los­ing fin­ger­nails, Har­ry! That re­al­ly puts our suf­fer­ings in­to per­spec­tive, doesn't it?” “Hermione,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly, “Ron just saved my life.”

She ap­peared not to have heard him.

“One thing I would like to know, though,” she said, fix­ing her eyes on a spot a foot over Ron's head. “How ex­act­ly did you find us tonight? That's im­por­tant. Once we know, we'll be able to make sure we're not vis­it­ed by any­one else we don't want to see.”

Ron glared at her, then pulled a small sil­ver ob­ject from his jeans pock­et.

“This.”

She had to look at Ron to see what he was show­ing them.

“The De­lu­mi­na­tor?” she asked, so sur­prised she for­got to look cold and fierce.

“It doesn't just turn the lights on and off,” said Ron. “I don't know how it works or why it hap­pened then and not any oth­er time, be­cause I've been want­ing to come back ev­er since I left. But I was lis­ten­ing to the ra­dio re­al­ly ear­ly on Christ­mas morn­ing and I heard ... I heard you.”

He was look­ing at Hermione.

“You heard me on the ra­dio?” she asked in­cred­ulous­ly.

“No, I heard you com­ing out of my pock­et. Your voice,” he held up the De­lu­mi­na­tor again, “came out of this.”

“And what ex­act­ly did I say?” asked Hermione, her tone some­where be­tween skep­ti­cism and cu­rios­ity.

“My name. 'Ron.' And you said ... some­thing about a wand....”

Hermione turned a fiery shade of scar­let. Har­ry re­mem­bered: it had been the first time Won's name had been said aloud by ei­ther of them since the day he had left; Hermione had men­tioned it when talk­ing about re­pair­ing Har­ry's wand.

“So I took it out,” Ron went on, look­ing at the De­lu­mi­na­tor, “and it didn't seem dif­fer­ent or any­thing, but I was sure I'd heard you. So I clicked it. And the light went out in my room, but an­oth­er light ap­peared right out­side the win­dow.”

Ron raised his emp­ty hand and point­ed in front of him, his eyes fo­cused on some­thing nei­ther Har­ry nor Hermione could see.

“It was a ball of light, kind of puls­ing, and bluish, like that light you get around a Portkey, you know?”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry and Hermione to­geth­er au­to­mat­ical­ly.

“I knew this was it,” said Ron. "I grabbed my stuff and packed it, then I put on my ruck­sack and went out in­to the gar­den.

“The lit­tle ball of light was hov­er­ing there, wait­ing for me, and when I came out it bobbed along a bit and I fol­lowed it be­hind the shed and then it ... well, it went in­side me.”

“Sor­ry?” said Har­ry, sure he had not heard cor­rect­ly.

“It sort of float­ed to­ward me,” said Ron, il­lus­trat­ing the move­ment with his free in­dex fin­ger, “right to my chest, and then -- it just went straight through. It was here,” he touched a point close to his heard, “I could feel it, it was hot. And once it was in­side me, I knew what I was sup­posed to do. I knew it would take me where I need­ed to go. So I Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed and came out on the side of a hill. There was snow ev­ery­where....”

“We were there,” said Har­ry. “We spent two nights there, and the sec­ond night I kept think­ing I could hear some­one mov­ing around in the dark and call­ing out!” “Yeah, well, that would've been me,” said Ron. “Your pro­tec­tive spells work, any­way, be­cause I couldn't see you and I couldn't hear you. I was sure you were around, though, so in the end I got in my sleep­ing bag and wait­ed for one of you to ap­pear. I thought you'd have to show your­selves when you packed up the tent.”

“No, ac­tu­al­ly,” said Hermione. “We've been Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak as an ex­tra pre­cau­tion. And we left re­al­ly ear­ly, be­cause as Har­ry says, we'd heard some­body blun­der­ing around.”

“Well, I stayed on that hill all day,” said Ron. “I kept hop­ing you'd ap­pear. But when it start­ed to get dark I knew I must have missed you, so I clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor again, the blue light came out and went in­side me, and I Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed and ar­rived here in these woods. I still couldn't see you, so I just had to hope one of you would show your­selves in the end -- and Har­ry did. Well, I saw the doe first, ob­vi­ous­ly.”

“You saw the what?” said Hermione sharply.

They ex­plained what had hap­pened and as the sto­ry of the sil­ver doe and the sword in the pool un­fold­ed, Hermione frowned form one to the oth­er of them, con­cen­trat­ing so hard she for­got to keep her limbs locked to­geth­er.

“But it must have been a Pa­tronus!” she said. “Couldn't you see who was cast­ing it? Didn't you see any­one? And it led you to the sword! I can't be­lieve this! Then what hap­pened?”

Ron ex­plained how he had watched Har­ry jump in­to the pool, and had wait­ed for him to resur­face; how he had re­al­ized that some­thing was wrong, dived in, and saved Har­ry, then re­turned for the sword. He got as far as the open­ing of the lock­et, then hes­itat­ed, and Har­ry cut in.

“-- and Ron stabbed it with the sword.”

“And ... and it went? Just like that?” she whis­pered.

“Well, it -- it screamed,” said Har­ry with half a glance at Ron. “Here.”

He threw the lock­et in­to her lap; gin­ger­ly she picked it up and ex­am­ined its punc­tured win­dows.

De­cid­ing that it was at last safe to do so, Har­ry re­moved the Shield Charm with a wave of Hermione's wand and turned to Ron.

“Did you just say now that you got away from the snatch­ers with a spare wand?”

“What?” said Ron, who had been watch­ing Hermione ex­am­in­ing the lock­et. “Oh -- oh yeah.”

He tugged open a buck­le on his ruck­sack and pulled a short dark wand out of his pock­et. “Here, I fig­ured it's al­ways handy to have a back­up.”

“You were right,” said Har­ry, hold­ing out his hand. “Mine's bro­ken.”

“You're kid­ding?” Ron said, but at that mo­ment Hermione got to her feet, and he looked ap­pre­hen­sive again.

Hermione put the van­quished Hor­crux in­to the bead­ed bag, then climbed back in­to her bed and set­tled down with­out an­oth­er word.

Ron passed Har­ry the new wand.



“About the best you could hope for, I think,” mur­mured Har­ry.

“Yeah,” said Ron. “Could've been worse. Re­mem­ber those birds she set on me?”

“I still haven't ruled it out,” came Hermione's muf­fled voice from be­neath her blan­kets, but Har­ry saw Ron smil­ing slight­ly as he pulled his ma­roon pa­ja­mas out of his ruck­sack.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY


XENOPHILIUS LOVE­GOOD



Har­ry had not ex­pect­ed Hermione's anger to abate over night and was there­fore un­sur­prised that she com­mu­ni­cat­ed main­ly by dirty looks and point­ed si­lences the next morn­ing. Ron re­spond­ed by main­tain­ing an un­nat­ural­ly somber de­meanor in her pres­ence as an out­ward sign of con­tin­uing re­morse. In fact, when all three of them were to­geth­er Har­ry felt like the on­ly non-​mourn­er at a poor­ly at­tend­ed fu­ner­al. Dur­ing those few mo­ments he spent alone with Har­ry, how­ev­er (col­lect­ing wa­ter and search­ing the un­der­growth for mush­rooms). Ron be­came shame­less­ly cheery. “Some­one helped us,” he kept say­ing, “Some­one sent that doe, Some­one's on our side, One Hor­crux down, mate!” Bol­stered by the de­struc­tion of the lock­et they set to de­bat­ing the pos­si­ble lo­ca­tions of the oth­er Hor­crux­es and even though they had dis­cussed the mat­ter so of­ten be­fore. Har­ry felt op­ti­mistic, cer­tain that more break­throughs would suc­ceed the first. Hermione's sulk­iness could not mar his buoy­ant spir­its; The sud­den up­swing in their for­tunes, the ap­pear­ance of the mys­te­ri­ous due, the re­cov­ery of Gryffind­or’s sword, and above all, Ron's re­turn made Har­ry so hap­py that it was quite dif­fi­cult to main­tain a straight face. Late in the af­ter­noon he and Ron es­caped Hermione's bale­ful pres­ence again and un­der the pre­tense of scour­ing the bare hedges for nonex­is­tent black­ber­ries, they con­tin­ued their on­go­ing ex­change of news. Har­ry had fi­nal­ly man­aged to tell Ron the whole sto­ry of his and Hermione's var­ious wan­der­ings, right up to the full sto­ry of what had hap­pened at Go­dric's Hol­low; Ron was now fill­ing Har­ry in on ev­ery­thing he had dis­cov­ered about the wider Wiz­ard­ing world dur­ing his weeks away. “... and how did you find out about the Taboo?” he asked Har­ry af­ter ex­plain­ing the many des­per­ate at­tempts of Mug­gle-​borns to evade the Min­istry.“ ”The what?“ ”You and Hermione have stopped say­ing You-​Know-​Who's name!“ ”Oh, yeah, Well, it's just a bad habit we've slipped in­to,“ said Har­ry. ”But I haven't got a prob­lem call­ing him V ---“ ”NO!“ roared Ron, caus­ing Har­ry to jump in­to the hedge and Hermione (nose buried in a book at the tent en­trance) to scowl over at them. ”Sor­ry,“ said Ron, wrench­ing Har­ry back out of the bram­bles, ”but the name's been jinxed, Har­ry, that's how they track peo­ple! Us­ing his name breaks pro­tec­tive en­chant­ments, it caus­es some kind of mag­ical dis­tur­bance --- it's how they found us in Tot­ten­ham Court Road!“ ”Be­cause we used his *name*?“ ”Ex­act­ly! You've got to give them cred­it, it makes sense. It was on­ly peo­ple who were se­ri­ous about stand­ing up to him, like Dum­ble­dore, who even dared use it. Now they've put a Taboo on it, any­one who says it is track­able --- quick-​and-​easy way to find Or­der mem­bers! They near­ly got Kings­ley ---“ ”You're kid­ding?“ ”Yeah, a bunch of Death Eaters cor­nered him, Bill said but he fought his way out. He's on the run now just like us.“ Ron scratched his chin thought­ful­ly with the end of his wand. ”You don't reck­on Kings­ley could have sent that doe?“ ”His Pa­tronus is a lynx, we saw it at the wed­ding, re­mem­ber?“ ”Oh yeah...“ They moved far­ther along the hedge, away from the tent and Hermione. ”Har­ry... you don't reck­on it could've been Dum­ble­dore?“ ”Dum­ble­dore what?“ Ron looked a lit­tle em­bar­rassed, but said in a low voice, ”Dum­ble­dore ... the doe? I mean,“ Ron was watch­ing Har­ry out of the cor­ners of his eyes, ”he had the re­al sword last, didn't he? Har­ry did not laugh at Ron, be­cause he un­der­stood too well the long­ing be­hind the ques­tion. The idea that Dum­ble­dore had man­aged to come back to them, that he was watch­ing over them, would have in­ex­press­ibly com­fort­ing. He shook his head. “Dum­ble­dore’s dead,” he said. “I saw it hap­pen, I saw the body. He's def­inite­ly gone. Any­way his Pa­tronus was a phoenix, not a doe” “Pa­tronus­es can change, though can't they?” said Ron, “Tonks’s changed didn't it?” Yeah, but if Dum­ble­dore was alive, why wouldn't he show him­self? Why wouldn't he just hand us the sword? “Search me,” said Ron. “Same rea­son he didn't give it to you while he was alive? Same rea­son he left you an old Snitch and Hermione a book of kid's sto­ries?” “Which is what?” asked Har­ry, turn­ing to look Ron full in the face des­per­ate for the an­swer. “I dun­no,” said Ron. “Some­times I've thought, when I've been a bit hacked off, he was hav­ing a laugh or --- or he just want­ed to make it more dif­fi­cult, But I don't think so, not any­more. He knew what he was do­ing when he gave me the De­lu­mi­na­tor, didn't he? He -- well,” Ron's ears turned bright red and he be­came en­grossed in a tuft of grass at his feet, which he prod­ded with his toe, “he must've known I'd run out on you.” “No,” Har­ry cor­rect­ed him. “He must've known you'd al­ways want to come back.” Ron looked grate­ful, but still awk­ward. Part­ly to change the sub­ject, Har­ry said, “Speak­ing of Dum­ble­dore, have you heard what Skeeter wrote about him?” “Oh yeah,” said Ron at once, “peo­ple are talk­ing about it quite a lot. 'Course, if things were dif­fer­ent it'd be huge news, Dum­ble­dore be­ing pals with Grindel­wald, but now it's just some­thing to laugh about for peo­ple who didn't like Dum­ble­dore, and a bit of a slap in the face for ev­ery­one who thought he was such a good bloke. I don't know that it's such a big deal, though. He was re­al­ly young when they --” “Our age,” said Har­ry, just as he had re­tort­ed to Hermione, and some­thing in his face seemed to de­cide Ron against pur­su­ing the sub­ject. A large spi­der sat in the mid­dle of a frost­ed web in the bram­bles. Har­ry took aim at it with the wand Ron had giv­en him the pre­vi­ous night, which Hermione had since con­de­scend­ed to ex­am­ine, and had de­cid­ed was made of black­thorn. “*En­gor­gio*” “The spi­der gave a lit­tle shiv­er, bounc­ing slight­ly in the web. Har­ry tried again. This time the spi­der grew slight­ly larg­er. ”Stop that,“ said Ron sharply, ” I'm sor­ry I said Dum­ble­dore was young, okay?“ Har­ry had for­got­ten Ron's ha­tred of spi­ders. ”Sor­ry --- *Re­ducio*“ The spi­der did not shrink. Har­ry looked down at the black­thorn wand. Ev­ery mi­nor spell he had cast with it so far that day had seemed less pow­er­ful than those he had pro­duced with his phoenix wand. The new one felt in­tru­sive­ly un­fa­mil­iar, like hav­ing some­body else's hand sewn to the end of his arm. ”You just need to prac­tice,“ said Hermione, who had ap­proached them noise­less­ly from be­hind and had stood watch­ing anx­ious­ly as Har­ry tried to en­large and re­duce the spi­der. ”It’s all a mat­ter of con­fi­dence Har­ry.“ He knew why she want­ed it to be all right; She still felt guilty about break­ing his wand. He bit back the re­tort that sprung to his lips, that she could take the black­thorn wand if she thought it made no dif­fer­ence, and he would have hers in­stead. Keen for them all to be friends again, how­ev­er, he agreed; but when Ron gave Hermione a ten­ta­tive smile, she stalked off and van­ished be­hind her book once more. All three of them re­turned to the tent when dark­ness fell, and Har­ry took first watch. Sit­ting in the en­trance, he tried to make the black­thorn wand lev­itate small stones at his feet; but his mag­ic still seemed clum­si­er and less pow­er­ful than it had done be­fore. Hermione was ly­ing on her bunk read­ing, while Ron, af­ter many ner­vous glances up at her, had tak­en a small wood­en wire­less out of his ruck­sack and start­ed to try to tune it. ”There's this one pro­gram,“ he told Har­ry in a low voice, ”that tells the news like it re­al­ly is. All the oth­ers are on You-​Know-​Who's side and are fol­low­ing the Min­istry line, but this one ... you wait till you hear it, it's great. On­ly they can't do it ev­ery night, they have to keep chang­ing lo­ca­tions in case they're raid­ed and you need a pass­word to tune in ... Trou­ble is, I missed the last one...“ He drummed light­ly on the top of the ra­dio with his wand mut­ter­ing ran­dom words un­der his breath. He threw Hermione many covert glances, plain­ly fear­ing an an­gry out­burst, but for all the no­tice she took of him he might not have been there. For ten min­utes or so Ron tapped and mut­tered, Hermione turned the pages of her book, and Har­ry con­tin­ued to prac­tice with the black­thorn wand. Fi­nal­ly Hermione climbed down from her bunk. Ron ceased his tap­ping at once. ”If it's an­noy­ing you, I'll stop!“ he told Hermione ner­vous­ly. Hermione did not deign to re­spond, but ap­proached Har­ry. ”We need to talk,“ she said. He looked at the book still clutched in her hand. It was * The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.* ”What?“ he said ap­pre­hen­sive­ly. It flew through his mind that there was a chap­ter on him in there; he was not sure he felt up to hear­ing Ri­ta's ver­sion of his re­la­tion­ship with Dum­ble­dore. Hermione's an­swer how­ev­er, was com­plete­ly un­ex­pect­ed. ”I want to go and see Xenophilius Love­good.“ He stared at her. ”Sor­ry?"

“Xenophilius Love­good, Lu­na’s fa­ther. I want to go and talk to him!”

“er – why?”

She took a deep breath, as though brac­ing her­self, and said, “It’s that mark, the mark in Bee­dle the Bard. Look at this!”

She thrust The Life and Lies of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore un­der Har­ry’s un­will­ing eyes and saw a pho­to­graph of the orig­inal let­ter that Dum­ble­dore had writ­ten Grindel­wald, with Dum­ble­dore’s fa­mil­iar thin, slant­ing hand­writ­ing. He hat­ed see­ing ab­so­lute proof that Dum­ble­dore re­al­ly had writ­ten those words, that they had not been Ri­ta’s in­ven­tion.

“The sig­na­ture,” said Hermione. “Look at the sig­na­ture, Har­ry!”

He obeyed. For a mo­ment he had no idea what she was talk­ing about, but, look­ing more close­ly with the aid of his lit wand, he saw that Dum­ble­dore had re­placed the A of Al­bus with a tiny ver­sion of the same tri­an­gu­lar mark in­scribed up­on The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard.

“Er – what are you -- ?” said Ron ten­ta­tive­ly, but Hermione quelled him with a look and turned back to Har­ry.

“It keeps crop­ping up, doesn’t it?” she said. “I know Vik­tor said it was Grindel­wald’s mark, but it was def­inite­ly on that old grave in Go­dric’s Hol­low, and the dates on the head­stone were long be­fore Grindel­wald came along! And now this! Well, we can’t ask Dum­ble­dore or Grindel­wald what it means – I don’t even know whether Grindel­wald’s still alive – but we can ask Mr. Love­good. He was wear­ing the sym­bol at the wed­ding. I’m sure this is im­por­tant, Har­ry!”

Har­ry did not an­swer im­me­di­ate­ly. He looked in­to her in­tense, ea­ger face and then out in­to the sur­round­ing dark­ness, think­ing. Af­ter a long pause he said, “Hermione, we don’t need an­oth­er Go­dric’s Hol­low. We talked our­selves in­to go­ing there, and –”

“But it keeps ap­pear­ing, Har­ry! Dum­ble­dore left me The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard, how do you know we’re not sup­posed to find out about the sign?”

“Here we go again!” Har­ry felt slight­ly ex­as­per­at­ed. “We keep try­ing to con­vince our­selves Dum­ble­dore left us se­cret signs and clues –“

“The De­lu­mi­na­tor turned out to be pret­ty use­ful,” piped up Ron. “I think Hermione’s right, I think we ought to go and see Love­good.”

Har­ry threw him a dark look. He was quite sure that Ron’s sup­port of Hermione had lit­tle to do with a de­sire to know the mean­ing of the tri­an­gu­lar rune.

“It won’t be like Go­dric’s Hol­low,” Ron added, “Love­good’s on your side, Har­ry, The Quib­bler’s been for you all along, it keeps telling ev­ery­one they’ve got to help you!”

“I’m sure this is im­por­tant!” said Hermione earnest­ly.

“But don’t you think if it was, Dum­ble­dore would have told me about it be­fore he died?”

“Maybe . . . maybe it’s some­thing you need to find out for your­self,” said Hermione with a faint air of clutch­ing at straws.

“Yeah,” said Ron syco­phan­ti­cal­ly, “that makes sense.”

“No, it doesn’t,” snapped Hermione, “but I still think we ought to talk to Mr. Love­good. A sym­bol that links Dum­ble­dore, Grindel­wald, and Go­dric’s Hol­low? Har­ry, I’m sure we ought to know about this!”

“I think we should vote on it,” said Ron. “Those in fa­vor of go­ing to see Love good –”

His hand flew in­to the air be­fore Hermione’s. Her lips quiv­ered sus­pi­cious­ly as she raised her own.

“Out­vot­ed, Har­ry, sor­ry,” said Ron, clap­ping him on the back.

“Fine,” said Har­ry, half amused, half ir­ri­tat­ed. “On­ly, once we’ve seen Love­good, let’s try and look for some more Hor­crux­es, shall we? Where do the Love­good’s live, any­way? Do ei­ther of you know?

“Yeah, they’re not far from my place,” said Ron. “I dun­no ex­act­ly where, but Mum and Dad al­ways point to­ward the hills when­ev­er they men­tion them. Shouldn’t be hard to find.”

When Hermione had re­turned to her bunk, Har­ry low­ered his voice.

“You on­ly agreed to try and get back in her good books.”

“All’s fair in love and war,” said Ron bright­ly, “and this is a bit of both. Cheer up, it’s the Christ­mas hol­idays, Lu­na’ll be home!”

They had an ex­cel­lent view of the vil­lage of Ot­tery St. Catchopole from the breezy hill­side to which they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed next morn­ing. From their high van­tage point the vil­lage looked like a col­lec­tion of toy hous­es in the great slant­ing shafts of sun­light stretch­ing to earth in the breaks be­tween clouds. They stood for a minute or two look­ing to­ward the Bur­row, their hands shad­ow­ing their eyes, but all they could make out were the high hedges and trees of the or­chard, which af­ford­ed the crooked lit­tle house pro­tec­tion from Mug­gle eyes.

“It’s weird, be­ing this near, but not go­ing to vis­it,” said Ron.

“Well, it’s not like you haven’t just seen them. You were there for Christ­mas,” said Hermione cold­ly.

“I wasn’t at the Bur­row!” said Ron with an in­cred­ulous laugh. “Do you think I was go­ing to go back there and tell them all I’d walked out on you? Yeah, Fred and George would’ve been great about it. And Gin­ny, she’d have been re­al­ly un­der­stand­ing.”

“But where have you been, then?” asked Hermione, sur­prised.

“Bill and Fleur’s new place. Shell cot­tage. Bill’s al­ways been de­cent to me. He – he wasn’t im­pressed when he heard what I’d done, but he didn’t go on about it. He knew I was re­al­ly sor­ry. None of the rest of the fam­ily know I was there. Bill told Mum he and Fleur weren’t go­ing home for Christ­mas be­cause they want­ed to spend it alone. You know, first hol­iday af­ter they were mar­ried. I don’t think Fleur mind­ed. You know how much she hates Ce­lesti­na War­beck.”

Ron turned his back on the Bur­row.

“Let’s try up here,” he said, lead­ing the way over the top of the hill.

They walked for a few hours, Har­ry, at Hermione’s in­sis­tence, hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. The clus­ter of low hills ap­peared to be un­in­hab­it­ed apart from one small cot­tage, which seemed de­sert­ed.

“Do you think it’s theirs, and they’ve gone away for Christ­mas?” said Hermione, peer­ing through the win­dow at a neat lit­tle kitchen with gera­ni­ums on the win­dowsill. Ron snort­ed.

“Lis­ten, I’ve got a feel­ing you’d be able to tell who lived there if you looked through the Love­goods’ win­dow. Let’s try the next lot of hills.”

So they Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed a few miles far­ther north.

“Aha!” shout­ed Ron, as the wind whipped their hair and clothes. Ron was point­ing up­ward, to­ward the top of the hill on which they had ap­peared, where a most strange-​look­ing house rose ver­ti­cal­ly against the sky, a great black cylin­der with a ghost­ly moon hang­ing be­hind it in the af­ter­noon sky. “That’s got to be Lu­na’s house, who else would live in a place like that? It looks like a gi­ant rook!”

“It’s noth­ing like a bird,” said Hermione, frown­ing at the tow­er.

“I was talk­ing about a chess rook,” said Ron. “A cas­tle to you.”

Ron’s legs were the longest and he reached the top of the hill first. When Har­ry and Hermione caught up with him, pant­ing and clutch­ing stitch­es in their sides, they found him grin­ning broad­ly.

“It’s theirs,” said Ron. “Look.”

Three hand-​paint­ed signs had been tacked to a broke-​down gate. The first read,

THE QUIB­BLER. ED­ITOR, X. LOVE­GOOD

the sec­ond,

PICK YOUR OWN MISTLE­TOE

the third,

KEEP OFF THE DI­RI­GI­BLE PLUMS

The gate creaked as they opened it. The zigzag­ging path lead­ing to the front door was over­grown with a va­ri­ety of odd plants, in­clud­ing a bush cov­ered in or­ange radish­like fruit Lu­na some­times wore as ear­rings. Har­ry thought he rec­og­nized a Snar­galuff and gave the wiz­ened stump a wide berth. Two aged crab ap­ple trees, bent with the wind, stripped of leaves but still heavy with berry-​sized red fruits and bushy crowns of white bead­ed mistle­toe, stood sen­tinel on ei­ther side of the front door. A lit­tle owl with a slight­ly flat­tened hawk­like head peered down at them from one of the branch­es.

“You’d bet­ter take off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, Har­ry,” said Hermione. “It’s you Mr. Love­good wants to help, not us.”

He did as she sug­gest­ed, hand­ing her the Cloak to stow in the bead­ed bag. She then rapped three times on the thick black door, which was stud­ded with iron nails and bore a knock­er shaped like an ea­gle.

Bare­ly ten sec­onds passed, then the door was flung open and there stood Xenophilius Love­good, bare­foot and wear­ing what ap­peared to be a stained night­shirt. His long white can­dyfloss hair was dirty and un­kempt. Xenophilius had been pos­itive­ly dap­per at Bill and Fleur's wed­ding by com­par­ison. “What? What is it? Who are you? What do you want?” he cried in a high-​pitched, queru­lous voice, look­ing first at Hermione, then at Ron, and fi­nal­ly at Har­ry, up­on which his mouth fell open in a per­fect, com­ical O. “Hel­lo, Mr. Love­good,” said Har­ry, hold­ing out his hand, “I'm Har­ry, Har­ry Pot­ter.” Xenophilius did not take Har­ry's hand, al­though the eye that was not point­ing in­ward at his nose slid straight to the scar on Har­ry's fore­head. “Would it be okay if we came in?” asked Har­ry. “There's some­thing we'd like to ask you.” “I . . . I'm not sure that's ad­vis­able,” whis­pered Xenophilius, He swal­lowed and cast a quick look around the gar­den. “Rather a shock . . . My word . . . I . . . I'm afraid I don't re­al­ly think I ought to ---” “It wont take long” said Har­ry, slight­ly dis­ap­point­ed by this less-​than-​warm wel­come. “I --- oh, all right then. Come in, quick­ly, Quick­ly!” They were bare­ly over the thresh­old when Xenophilius slammed the door shut be­hind them, They were stand­ing in the most pe­cu­liar kitchen Har­ry had ev­er seen. The room was per­fect­ly cir­cu­lar, so that he felt like be­ing in­side a gi­ant pep­per pot. Ev­ery­thing was curved to fit the walls - the stove, the sink, and the cup­boards - and all of it had been paint­ed with flow­ers, in­sects, and birds in bright pri­ma­ry col­ors. Har­ry thought he rec­og­nized Lu­na's styles. The ef­fect in such and en­closed space, was slight­ly over­whelm­ing. In the mid­dle of the floor, a wrought-​iron spi­ral stair­case ld to the up­per lev­els. There was a great deal of clat­ter­ing and bang­ing com­ing from over­head: Har­ry won­dered what Lu­na could be do­ing. “You'd bet­ter come up.” said Xenophilius, still look­ing ex­treme­ly un­com­fort­able, and he led the way. The room above seemed to be a com­bi­na­tion of liv­ing room and work­place, and as such, was even more clut­tered than the kitchen. Though much small­er and en­tire­ly round, the room some­what re­sem­bled the Room of Re­quire­ment on the un­for­get­table oc­ca­sion that it had trans­formed it­self in­to a gi­gan­tic labyrinth com­prised of cen­turies of hid­den ob­jects. There were piles up­on piles of books and pa­pers on ev­ery sur­face. Del­icate­ly made mod­els of crea­tures Har­ry did not rec­og­nize, all flap­ping wings or snap­ping jaws, hung from the ceil­ing. Lu­na was not there: The thing that was mak­ing such a rack­et was a wood­en ob­ject cov­ered in mag­ical­ly turn­ing cogs and wheels, It looked like the bizarre off­spring of a work­bench and a set of shelves, but af­ter a mo­ment Har­ry de­duced that it was an old-​fash­ioned print­ing press, due to the fact that it was churn­ing out Quib­blers. “Ex­cuse me,” said Xenophilius, and he strode over to the ma­chine, seized grub­bi­ly table­cloth from be­neath an im­mense num­ber of books and pa­pers, which all tum­bled on­to the floor, and threw it over the press, some­what muf­fling the loud bangs and clat­ters. He then faced Har­ry. “Why have you come here?” Be­fore Har­ry could speak, how­ev­er, Hermione let out a small cry of shock. “Mr. Love­good - what's that?” See was point­ing at an enor­mous, gray spi­ral horn, not un­like that of a uni­corn, which had been mount­ed on the wall, pro­trud­ing sev­er­al feet in­to the room. “It is the horn of a Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack,” said Xenophilius. “No it isn't!” said Hermione. “Hermione,” mut­tered Har­ry, em­bar­rassed, “now's not the mo­ment -” “But Har­ry, it's an Erumpent horn! It's a Class B Trade­able Ma­te­ri­al and it's an ex­traor­di­nary dan­ger­ous thing to have in a house!” “How'd you know it's an Erumpent horn?” asked Ron, edg­ing away from the horn as fast as he could, giv­en the ex­treme clut­ter of the room. “There's a de­scrip­tion in Fan­tas­tic Beasts and Where to Find Them! Mr. Love­good, you need to get rid of it straight­away, don't you know it can ex­plode at the slight­est touch?” “The Crum­ple Horned Snorkack” said Xenophilius very clear­ly, a mul­ish look up­on his face, “is a shy and high­ly mag­ical crea­ture, and it's horn -“ ”Mr. Love­good. I rec­og­nize the grooved mark­ings around the base, that's an Erumpent horn and it's in­cred­ibly dan­ger­ous - I don't know where you got it-“ ”I bought it,“ said Xenophilius dog­mat­ical­ly. ”Two weeks ago, from a de­light­ful young wiz­ard who knew my in­ter­est in the exquisite Snorkack. A Christ­mas sur­prise for my Lu­na. Now,“ he said, turn­ing to Har­ry, ”why ex­act­ly have you come here, Mr. Pot­ter?“ ”We need some help,“ said Har­ry, be­fore Hermione could start again. ”Ah,“ said Xenophilius, ”Help, Hmm.“ His good eye moved again to Har­ry's scar. He seemed si­mul­ta­ne­ous­ly ter­ri­fied and mes­mer­ized. ”Yes. The thing is ... help­ing Har­ry Pot­ter ... rather dan­ger­ous...“ ”Aren't you the one who keeps telling ev­ery­one it's their first du­ty to help Har­ry?“ said Ron. ”In that mag­azine of yours?“ Xenophilius glanced be­hind him at the con­cealed print­ing press, still bang­ing and clat­ter­ing be­neath the table­cloth. ”Er - yes, I have ex­pressed that view. how­ev­er -“ ”That's for ev­ery­one else to do, not you per­son­al­ly?“ said Ron. Xenophilius did not an­swer. He kept swal­low­ing, his eyes dart­ing be­tween the three of them. Har­ry had the im­pres­sion that he was un­der­go­ing some painful in­ter­nal strug­gle. ”Where's Lu­na?“ asked Hermione. ”Let's see what she thinks.“ Xenophilius gulped. He seemed to be steel­ing him­self. Fi­nal­ly he said in a shaky voice dif­fi­cult to hear over the noise of the print­ing press, ”Lu­na is down at the stream, fish­ing for Fresh­wa­ter Plimp­ies. She...she will like to see you. I'll go and call her and then - yes, very well. I shall try to help you.“ He dis­ap­peared down the spi­ral stair­case and they heard the front open and close. They looked at each oth­er. ”Cow­ard­ly old wart,“ said Ron. ”Lu­na's got ten times his guts.“ ”He's prob­ably wor­ried about what'll hap­pen to them if the Death Eaters find out I was here“ said Har­ry. ”Well, I agree with Ron, “ said Hermione, ”Aw­ful old hyp­ocrite, telling ev­ery­one else to help you and try­ing to worm our of it him­self. And for heav­en's sake keep away from that horn.“ Har­ry crossed to the win­dow on the far side of the room. He could see a stream, a thin, glit­ter­ing rib­bon ly­ing far be­low them at the base of the hill. They were very high up; a bird flut­tered past the win­dow as he stared in the di­rec­tion of the Bur­row, now in­vis­ible be­yond an­oth­er line of hills. Gin­ny was over there some­where. They were clos­er to each oth­er to­day than they had been since Bill and Fleur's wed­ding, but she could have no idea he was gaz­ing to­ward her now, think­ing of her. He sup­pose he ought to be glad of it; any­one he came in­to con­tact with was in dan­ger, Xenophilius's at­ti­tude proved that. he turned away from the win­dows and his gaze fell up­on an­oth­er pe­cu­liar ob­ject stand­ing up­on the clut­tered, curved slide board; a stone but of a beau­ti­ful but aus­tere-​look­ing witch wear­ing a most bizarre-​look­ing head­dress. Two ob­jects that re­sem­bled gold­en ear trum­pets curved out from the sides. A tiny pair of glit­ter­ing blue wing was stuck to a leather strap that ran over the top of her head, while one of the or­ange radish­es had been stuck to a sec­ond strap around her fore­head. ”Look at this,“ said Har­ry. ”Fetch­ing,“ said Ron. ”Sur­prised he didn't hear that to the wed­ding.“ They heard the front door close, and a mo­ment lat­er Xenophilius climbed back up the spi­ral stair­case in­to the room, his thin legs now en­case in Welling­ton boots, bear­ing a tray of ill-​as­sort­ed teacups and a steam­ing teapot. ”Ah, you have spot­ted my pet in­ven­tion,“ he said, shov­ing the tray in­to Hermione's arms and join­ing Har­ry at the stat­ue's side. ”Mod­eled, fit­ting­ly enough, up­on the head of the beau­ti­ful Rowens Raven­claw, 'Wit be­yond mea­sure is a man's great­est trea­sure!'“ He in­di­cat­ed the ob­jects like ear trum­pets. ”These are the Wrack­purt siphons - to re­move all sources of dis­trac­tion from the thinker's im­me­di­ate area. Here, “he point­ed out the tiny wings, ”a bil­ly­wig pro­peller, to in­duce an el­evat­ed frame of mind. Fi­nal­ly, “he point­ed to the or­ange radish, ”the di­ri­gi­ble Plum, so as to en­hance the abil­ity to ac­cept the ex­traor­di­nary.“ Xenophilius strode back to the tea tray, which Hermione had man­aged to bal­ance pre­car­ious­ly on one of the clut­tered side ta­bles. ”May I of­fer you all an in­fu­sion of Gur­dy­roots?“ said Xenophilius. ”We make it our­selves.“ As he start­ed to pour out the drink, which was as deeply pur­ple as beet­root juice, he added, ”Lu­na is down be­yond Bot­tom Bridge, she is most ex­cit­ed that you are here She ought not to be too long, she has caught near­ly enough Plump­ies to make soup for all of us. Do sit down and help your­selves to sug­ar. “Now,” he re­move a tot­ter­ing pile of pa­pers from an arm­chair and sat down, his Welling­toned legs crossed, “how may I help you, Mr. Pot­ter?” “Well,” said Har­ry, glanc­ing at Hermione, who nod­ded en­cour­ag­ing­ly, “it's about that sym­bol you were wear­ing around your neck at Bill and Fleur's wed­ding, Mr. Love­good. We won­dered what it meant.” Xenophilius raised his eye­brows. “Are you re­fer­ring to the sign of the Death­ly Hal­lows?”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE


THE TALE OF THE THREE BROTH­ERS





Har­ry turned to look at Ron and Hermione. Nei­ther of them seemed to have un­der­stood what Xenophilius had said ei­ther.

“The Death­ly Hal­lows?”

“That's right,” said Xenophilius. “You haven't heard of them? I'm not sur­prised. Very, very few wiz­ards be­lieve. Wit­ness that knuck­le-​head­ed young man at your broth­er's wed­ding,” he nod­ded at Ron, “who at­tacked me for sport­ing the sym­bol of a well-​known Dark wiz­ard! Such ig­no­rance. There is noth­ing Dark about the Hal­lows – at least not in that crude sense. One sim­ply us­es the sym­bol to re­veal one­self to oth­er be­liev­ers, in the hope that they might help one with the Quest.”

He stirred sev­er­al lumps of sug­ar in­to his Gur­dy­root in­fu­sion and drank some.

“I'm sor­ry,” said Har­ry, “I still don't re­al­ly un­der­stand.”

To be po­lite, he took a sip from his cup too, and al­most gagged: The stuff was quite dis­gust­ing, as though some­one had liq­uidized bo­gey-​fla­vored Ev­ery Fla­vor Beans.

“Well, you see, be­liev­ers seek the Death­ly Hal­lows,” said Xenophilius, smack­ing his lips in ap­par­ent ap­pre­ci­ation of the Gur­dy­root in­fu­sion.

“But what are the Death­ly Hal­lows?” asked Hermione.

Xenophilius set aside his emp­ty teacup.

“I as­sume that you are fa­mil­iar with 'The Tale of the Three Broth­ers'?”

Har­ry said, “No,” but Ron and Hermione both said, “Yes.” Xenophilius nod­ded grave­ly.

“Well, well, Mr. Pot­ter, the whole thing starts with 'The Tale of the Three Broth­ers' . . . I have a copy some­where . . .”

He glanced vague­ly around the room, at the piles of parch­ment and books, but Hermione said, “I've got a copy, Mr. Love­good, I've got it right here.”

And she pulled out The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard from the small, bead­ed bag.

“The orig­inal?” in­quired Xenophilius sharply, and when she nod­ded, he said, “Well then, why don't you read it out aloud? Much the best way to make sure we all un­der­stand.”

“Er. . . all right,” said Hermione ner­vous­ly. She opened the book, and Har­ry saw that the sym­bol they were in­ves­ti­gat­ing head­ed the top of the page as she gave a lit­tle cough, and be­gan to read.

“'There were once three broth­ers who were trav­el­ing along a lone­ly, wind­ing road at twi­light –'”

“Mid­night, our mum al­ways told us,” said Ron, who had stretched out, arms be­hind his head, to lis­ten. Hermione shot him a look of an­noy­ance.

“Sor­ry, I just think it's a bit spook­ier if it's mid­night!” said Ron.

“Yeah, be­cause we re­al­ly need a bit more fear in our lives,” said Har­ry be­fore he could stop him­self. Xenophilius did not seem to be pay­ing much at­ten­tion, but was star­ing out of the win­dow at the sky. “Go on, Hermione.”

"In time, the broth­ers reached a riv­er too deep to wade through and too dan­ger­ous to swim across. How­ev­er, these broth­ers were learned in the mag­ical arts, and so they sim­ply waved their wands and made a bridge ap­pear across the treach­er­ous wa­ter. They were halfway across it when they found their path blocked by a hood­ed fig­ure.

“'And Death spoke to them –'”

“Sor­ry,” in­ter­ject­ed Har­ry, “but Death spoke to them?”

“It's a fairy tale, Har­ry!”

“Right, sor­ry. Go on.”

"'And Death spoke to them. He was an­gry that he had been cheat­ed out of the three new vic­tims, for trav­el­ers usu­al­ly drowned in the riv­er. But Death was cun­ning. He pre­tend­ed to con­grat­ulate the three broth­ers up­on their mag­ic, and said that each had earned a prize for hav­ing been clever enough to evade him.

"'So the old­est broth­er, who was a com­bat­ive man, asked for a wand more pow­er­ful than any in ex­is­tence: a wand that must al­ways win du­els for its own­er, a wand wor­thy of a wiz­ard who had con­quered Death! So Death crossed to an el­der tree on the banks of the riv­er, fash­ioned a wand from a branch that hung there, and gave it to the old­est broth­er.

"'Then the sec­ond broth­er, who was an ar­ro­gant man, de­cid­ed that he want­ed to hu­mil­iate Death still fur­ther, and asked for the pow­er to re­call oth­ers from Death. So Death picked up a stone from the river­bank and gave it to the sec­ond broth­er, and told him that the stone would have the pow­er to bring back the dead.

“'And then Death asked the third and youngest broth­er what he would like. The youngest broth­er was the hum­blest and al­so the wis­est of the broth­ers, and he did not trust Death. So he asked for some­thing that would en­able him to go forth from that place with­out be­ing fol­lowed by Death. And Death, most un­will­ing­ly, hand­ed over his own Cloak of In­vis­ibil­ity.'”

“Death's got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak?” Har­ry in­ter­rupt­ed again.

“So he can sneak up on peo­ple,” said Ron. “Some­times he gets bored of run­ning at them, flap­ping his arms and shriek­ing . . . sor­ry, Hermione.”

"'Then Death stood aside and al­lowed the three broth­ers to con­tin­ue on their way, and they did so talk­ing with won­der of the ad­ven­ture they had had and ad­mir­ing Death's gifts.

"'In due course the broth­ers sep­arat­ed, each for his own des­ti­na­tion.

"'The first broth­er trav­eled on for a week more, and reach­ing a dis­tant vil­lage, sought out a fel­low wiz­ard with whom he had a quar­rel. Nat­ural­ly, with the El­der Wand as his weapon, he could not fail to win the du­el that fol­lowed. Leav­ing his en­emy dead up­on the floor the old­est broth­er pro­ceed­ed to an inn, where he boast­ed loud­ly of the pow­er­ful wand he had snatched from Death him­self, and of how it made him in­vin­ci­ble.

"'That very night, an­oth­er wiz­ard crept up­on the old­est broth­er as he lay, wine-​sod­den up­on his bed. The thief took the wand and for good mea­sure, slit the old­est broth­er's throat.

"'And so Death took the first broth­er for his own.

"'Mean­while, the sec­ond broth­er jour­neyed to his own home, where he lived alone. Here he took out the stone that had the pow­er to re­call the dead, and turned it thrice in his hand. To his amaze­ment and his de­light, the fig­ure of the girl he had once hoped to mar­ry, be­fore her un­time­ly death, ap­peared at once be­fore him.

"'Yet she was sad and cold, sep­arat­ed from him as by a veil. Though she had re­turned to the mor­tal world, she did not tru­ly be­long there and suf­fered. Fi­nal­ly the sec­ond broth­er, driv­en mad with hope­less long­ing, killed him­self so as to tru­ly join her.

"'And so Death took the sec­ond broth­er from his own.

“'But though Death searched for the third broth­er for many years, he was nev­er able to find him. It was on­ly when he had at­tained a great age that the youngest broth­er fi­nal­ly took off the Cloak of In­vis­ibil­ity and gave it to his son. And the he greet­ed Death as an old friend, and went with him glad­ly, and, equals, they de­part­ed this life.'”

Hermione closed the book. It was a mo­ment or two be­fore Xenophilius seemed to re­al­ize that she had stopped read­ing; then he with­drew his gaze from the win­dow and said: “Well, there you are.”

“Sor­ry?” said Hermione, sound­ing con­fused.

“Those are the Death­ly Hal­lows,” said Xenophilius.

He picked up a quill from a packed ta­ble at his el­bow, and pulled a torn piece of parch­ment from be­tween more books.

“The El­der Wand,” he said, and drew a straight ver­ti­cal line up­on the parch­ment. “The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone,” he said, and added a cir­cle on top of the line. “The Cloak of In­vis­ibil­ity,” he fin­ished, en­clos­ing both line and cir­cle in a tri­an­gle, to make the sym­bols that so in­trigued Hermione. “To­geth­er,” he said, “the Death­ly Hal­lows.”

“But there's no men­tion of the words 'Death­ly Hal­lows' in the sto­ry,” said Hermione.

“Well, of course not,” said Xenophilius, mad­den­ing­ly smug. “That is a chil­dren's tale, told to amuse rather than to in­struct. Those of us who un­der­stand these mat­ters, how­ev­er, rec­og­nize that the an­cient sto­ry refers to three ob­jects, or Hal­lows, which, if unit­ed, will make the pos­ses­sor mas­ter of Death.”

There was a short si­lence in which Xenophilius glanced out of the win­dow. Al­ready the sun was low in the sky.

“Lu­na ought to have enough Plimp­ies soon,” he said qui­et­ly.

“When you say 'mas­ter of Death' –”said Ron.

“Mas­ter,” said Xenophilius, wav­ing an airy hand. “Con­queror. Van­quish­er. Whichev­er term you pre­fer.”

“But then . . . do you mean . . .” said Hermione slow­ly, and Har­ry could tell that she was try­ing to keep any trace of skep­ti­cism out of her voice, “that you be­lieve these ob­jects – these Hal­lows – re­al­ly ex­ist?”

Xenophilius raised his eye­brows again.

“Well, of course.”

“But,” said Hermione, and Har­ry could hear her re­straint start­ing to crack, “Mr. Love­good, how can you pos­si­bly be­lieve – ?”

“Lu­na has told me all about you, young la­dy,” said Xenophilius. “You are, I gath­er, not un­in­tel­li­gent, but painful­ly lim­it­ed. Nar­row. Close-​mind­ed.”

“Per­haps you ought to try on the hat, Hermione,” said Ron, nod­ding to­ward the lu­di­crous head­dress. His voice shook with the strain of not laugh­ing.

“Mr. Love­good,” Hermione be­gan again, “We all know that there are such things as In­vis­ibil­ity Cloaks. They are rare, but they ex­ist. But –”

“Ah, but the Third Hal­low is a true Cloak of In­vis­ibil­ity, Miss Granger! I mean to say, it is not a trav­el­ing cloak im­bued with a Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm, or car­ry­ing a Be­daz­zling Hex, or else wo­ven from Demigu­ise hair, which will hide one ini­tial­ly but fade with the years un­til it turns opaque. We are talk­ing about a cloak that re­al­ly and tru­ly ren­ders the wear­er com­plete­ly in­vis­ible, and en­dures eter­nal­ly, giv­ing con­stant and im­pen­etra­ble con­ceal­ment, no mat­ter what spells are cast at it. How many cloaks have you ev­er seen like that, Miss Granger?”

Hermione opened her mouth to an­swer, then closed it again, look­ing more con­fused than ev­er. She, Har­ry and Ron glanced at one an­oth­er, and Har­ry knew that they were all think­ing the same thing. It so hap­pened that a cloak ex­act­ly like the one Xenophilius had just de­scribed was in the room with them at that very mo­ment.

“Ex­act­ly,” said Xenophilius, as if he had de­feat­ed them all in rea­soned ar­gu­ment. “None of you have ev­er seen such a thing. The pos­ses­sor would be im­mea­sur­ably rich, would he not?”

He glanced out of the win­dow again. The sky was now tinged with the faintest trace of pink.

“All right,” said Hermione, dis­con­cert­ed. “Say the Cloak ex­ist­ed. . . what about that stone, Mr. Love­good? The thing you call the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone?”

“What of it?”

“Well, how can that be re­al?”

“Prove that is not,” said Xenophilius.

Hermione looked out­raged.

“But that's – I'm sor­ry, but that's com­plete­ly ridicu­lous! How can I pos­si­bly prove it doesn't ex­ist? Do you ex­pect me to get hold of – of all the peb­bles in the world and test them? I mean, you could claim that any­thing's re­al if the on­ly ba­sis for be­liev­ing in it is that no­body's proved it doesn't ex­ist!”

“Yes, you could,” said Xenophilius. “I am glad to see that you are open­ing your mind a lit­tle.”

“So the El­der Wand,” said Har­ry quick­ly, be­fore Hermione could re­tort, “you think that ex­ists too?”

“Oh, well, in that case there is end­less ev­idence,” said Xenophilius. “The El­der Wand is the Hal­low that is most eas­ily traced, be­cause of the way in which it pass­es from hand to hand.”

“Which is what?” asked Har­ry.

“Which is that the pos­ses­sor of the wand must cap­ture it from its pre­vi­ous own­er, if he is to be tru­ly mas­ter of it,” said Xenophilius. “Sure­ly you have heard of the way the wand came to Eg­bert the Egre­gious, af­ter his slaugh­ter of Emer­ic the Evil? Of how Gode­lot died in his own cel­lar af­ter his son, Here­ward, took the wand from him? Of the dread­ful Lox­ias, who took the wand from Baraabas De­ver­ill, whom he had killed? The bloody trail of the El­der Wand is splat­tered across the pages of Wiz­ard­ing his­to­ry.”

Har­ry glanced at Hermione. She was frown­ing at Xenophilius, but she did not con­tra­dict him.

“So where do you think the El­der Wand is now?” asked Ron.

“Alas, who knows?” said Xenophilius, as he gazed out of the win­dow. “Who knows where the El­der Wand lies hid­den? The trail goes cold with Ar­cus and Livius. Who can say which of them re­al­ly de­feat­ed Lox­ias, and which took the wand? And who can say who may have de­feat­ed them? His­to­ry, alas, does not tell us.”

There was a pause. Fi­nal­ly Hermione asked stiffly, “Mr. Love­good, does the Peverell fam­ily have any­thing to do with the Death­ly Hal­lows?”

Xenophilius looked tak­en aback as some­thing shift­ed in Har­ry's mem­ory, but he could not lo­cate it. Peverell. . . he had heard that name be­fore. . .

“But you have been mis­lead­ing me, young wom­an!” said Xenophilius, now sit­ting up much straighter in his chair and gog­gling at Hermione. “I thought you were new to the Hal­lows Quest! Many of us Questers be­lieve that the Peverells have ev­ery­thing – ev­ery­thing! – to do with the Hal­lows!”

“Who are the Peverells?” asked Ron.

“That was the name on the grave with the mark on it, in Go­dric's Hol­low,” said Hermione, still watch­ing Xenophilius. “Ig­no­tus Peverell.”

“Ex­act­ly!” said Xenophilius, his fore­fin­ger raised pedan­ti­cal­ly. “The sign of the Death Hal­lows on Ig­no­tus's grave is con­clu­sive proof!”

“Of what?” asked Ron.

“Why, that the three broth­ers in the sto­ry were ac­tu­al­ly the three Peverell broth­ers, An­ti­och, Cad­mus and Ig­no­tus! That they were the orig­inal own­ers of the Hal­lows!”

With an­oth­er glance at the win­dow he got to his feet, picked up the tray, and head­ed for the spi­ral stair­case.

“You will stay for din­ner?” he called, as he van­ished down­stairs again. “Ev­ery­body al­ways re­quests our recipe for Fresh­wa­ter Plimply soup.”

“Prob­ably to show the Poi­son­ing De­part­ment at St. Mun­go's,” said Ron un­der his breath.

Har­ry wait­ed un­til they could hear Xenophilius mov­ing about in the kitchen down­stairs be­fore speak­ing.

“What do you think?” he asked Hermione.

“Oh, Har­ry,” she said weari­ly, “it's a pile of ut­ter rub­bish. This can't be what the sign re­al­ly means. This must just be his weird take on it. What a waste of time.”

“I s'pose this is the man who brought us Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkacks,” said Ron.

“You didn't be­lieve it ei­ther?” Har­ry asked him.

“Nah, that sto­ry's just one of those things you tell kids to teach them lessons, isn't it? 'Don't go look­ing for trou­ble, don't go pick fights, don't go mess­ing around with stuff that's best left alone! Just keep your head down, mind your own busi­ness, and you'll be okay. Come to think of it,” Ron added, “maybe that sto­ry's why el­der wands are sup­posed to be un­lucky.”

“What are you talk­ing about?”

“One of those su­per­sti­tions, isn't it? 'May-​born witch­es will mar­ry Mug­gles.' 'Jinx by twi­light, un­done by mid­night.' 'Wand of cider, nev­er pros­per.' You must have heard them. My mum's full of them.”

“Har­ry and I were raised by Mug­gles,” Hermione re­mind­ed him. “We were taught dif­fer­ent su­per­sti­tions.” She sighed deeply as a rather pun­gent smell drift­ed up from the kitchen. The one good thing about her ex­as­per­ation with Xenophilius was that it seemed to have made her for­get that she was an­noyed at Ron. “I think you're right,” she told him. “It's just a moral­ity tale, it's ob­vi­ous which gift is best, which one you'd choose –”

The three of them spoke at the same time: Hermione said, “the Cloak,” Ron said, “the wand,” and Har­ry said, “the stone.”

They looked at each oth­er, half sur­prised, half amused.

“You're sup­posed to say the Cloak,” Ron told Hermione, “but you wouldn't need to be in­vis­ible if you had the wand. An un­beat­able wand, Hermione, come on!”

“We've al­ready got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak,” said Har­ry, “And it's helped us rather a lot, in case you hadn't no­ticed!” said Hermione. “Where­as the wand would be bound to at­tract trou­ble--” “On­ly if you shout­ed about it,” ar­gued Ron. “On­ly if you were prat enough to go danc­ing around wav­ing it over your head, and singing, 'I've got an un­beat­able want, come and have a go if you think you're hard enough.' As long as you kept your trap shut --” -Yes, but could you keep your trap shut?“ said Hermione, look­ing skep­ti­cal. ”You know the on­ly true thing he said to us was that there have been sto­ries about ex­tra-​pow­er­ful wands for hun­dreds of years.“ ”There have?“ asked Har­ry. Hermione looked ex­as­per­at­ed: The ex­pres­sion was so en­dear­ing­ly fa­mil­iar that Har­ry and Ron grinned at each oth­er. ”The Death­stick, the Wand of Des­tiny, they crop up un­der dif­fer­ent names through the cen­turies, usu­al­ly in the pos­ses­sion of some Dark wiz­ard who’s boast­ing about them. Pro­fes­sor Binns men­tioned some of them, but -- oh it's all non­sense. Wands are on­ly as pow­er­ful as the wiz­ards who use them. Some wiz­ards just like to boast that theirs are big­ger and bet­ter than oth­er peo­ple's“ ”But how do you know,“ said Har­ry, ”that those wants -- the Death­stick, and the Wand of Des­tiny -- aren't the same want, sur­fac­ing over the cen­turies un­der dif­fer­ent names?“ ”What if they're all re­al­ly the El­der Wand, made by Death?“ said Ron. Har­ry laughed: The strange idea that had oc­curred to him was af­ter all, ridicu­lous. His wand, he re­mind­ed him­self, had been of hol­ly, not el­der, and it had been made by Ol­li­van­der, what­ev­er it had done that night Volde­mort had pur­sued him across the skies and if it had been un­beat­able, how could it have been bro­ken? ”So why would you take the stone?“ Ron asked him. ”Well, if you could bring peo­ple back, we could have Sir­ius...Mad-​Eye...Dum­ble­dore...my par­ents...“ Nei­ther Ron nor Hermione smiled. ”But ac­cord­ing to Bee­dle the Bard, they wouldn't want to come back, would they?“ said Har­ry, think­ing about the tail they had just heard. ”I don't sup­pose there have been loads of oth­er sto­ries about a stone that can raise the dead, have there?: he asked Hermione. “No,” she replied sad­ly. “I don't think any­one ex­cept Mr. Love­good could kid them­selves that's pos­si­ble. Bee­dle prob­ably took the idea from the Sor­cer­er's Stone; you know, in­stead of a stone to make you im­mor­tal, a stone to re­verse death.” The smell from the kitchen was get­ting stronger. It was some­thing like burn­ing un­der­pants. Har­ry won­dered whether it would be pos­si­ble to eat enough of what­ev­er Xenophilius was cook­ing to spare his feel­ings. “What about the Cloak, though?” said Ron slow­ly. “Don't you re­al­ize, he's right? I've got so used to Har­ry's Cloak and how good it is, I nev­er stopped to think. I've nev­er heard of one like Har­ry's. It's in­fal­li­ble. We've nev­er been spot­ted un­der it --” “Of course not -- we're in­vis­ible when we're un­der it, Ron!” “But all the stuff he said about oth­er cloaks, and they're not ex­act­ly ten a Knut, you know, is true! It's nev­er oc­curred to me be­fore but I've heard stuff about charms wear­ing off cloaks when they get old, or them be­ing ripped apart by spells so they've got holes, Har­ry's was owned by his dad, so it's not ex­act­ly new, is it, but it's just ... per­fect!” “Yes, all right, but Ron, the stone...” As they ar­gued in whis­pers, Har­ry moved around the room, on­ly half lis­ten­ing. Reach­ing the spi­ral stair, he raised his eyes ab­sent­ly to the next lev­el and was dis­tract­ed at once. His own face was look­ing back at him from the ceil­ing of the room above. Af­ter a mo­ment's be­wil­der­ment, he re­al­ized that it was not a mir­ror, but a paint­ing. Cu­ri­ous, he be­gan to clime the stairs. “Har­ry, what are you do­ing? I don't think you should look around when he's not here!” But Har­ry had al­ready reached the next lev­el. Lu­na had dec­orat­ed her bed­room ceil­ing with five beau­ti­ful­ly paint­ed faces: Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Gin­ny, and Neville. They were not mov­ing as the por­traits at Hog­warts moved, but there was a cer­tain mag­ic about them all the same. Har­ry thought they breathed. What ap­peared to be a fine gold­en chains wove around the pic­tures link­ing them to­geth­er, but af­ter ex­am­in­ing them for a minute or so, Har­ry re­al­ized that the chains were ac­tu­al­ly one work re­peat­ed a thou­sand times in gold­en ink: friends... friends... friends... Har­ry felt a great rush of af­fec­tion for Lu­na. He looked around the room. There was a large pho­to­graph be­side the bed, of a young Lu­na and a wom­an who looked very like her. They were hug­ging. Lu­na looked rather bet­ter-​groomed in this pic­ture than Har­ry had ev­er seen her in life. The pic­ture was dusty. This struck Har­ry as slight­ly odd. He stared around. Some­thing was wrong. The pale blue car­pet was al­so thick with dust. There were no clothes in the wardrobe, whose doors stood ajar. The bed had a cold, un­friend­ly look, as though it had not been slept in for weeks. A sin­gle cob­web stretched over the near­est win­dow across the blood red sky. “What's wrong?” Hermione asked as Har­ry de­scend­ed the stair­case, but be­fore he could re­spond, Xenophilius reached the top of the stairs from the kitchen, now hold­ing a tray laden with bowls. “Mr. Love­good,” said Har­ry. “Where's Lu­na?” “Ex­cuse me?” “Where's Lu­na?” Xenophilius halt­ed on the top step. “I -- I've al­ready told you. She is down at the Bo­tions Bridge fish­ing for Plimp­ies.” “So why have you on­ly laid that tray for four?” Xenophilius tried to speak, but no sound came out. The on­ly noise was the con­tin­ued chug­ging of the print­ing press, and a slight rat­tle from the tray as Xenophilius's hands shook. “I don't think Lu­na's been here for weeks.” said Har­ry. “Her clothes are gone, her bed hasn't been slept in. Where is she? and why do you keep look­ing out of the win­dow?” Xenophilius dropped the tray. The bowls bounced and smashed Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione drew their wands. Xenophilius froze his hand about to en­ter his pock­et. At that mo­ment the print­ing press have a huge bank and nu­mer­ous Quib­blers came stream­ing across the floor from un­der­neath the table­cloth, the press fell silent at last. Hermione stooped down and picked up one of the mag­azines, her wand still point­ing at Mr. Love­good. “Har­ry, look at this” He strode over to her as quick­ly as he could through all the clut­ter. The front of the Quib­bler car­ried his own pic­ture, em­bla­zoned with the words “Un­de­sir­able Num­ber One” and cap­tioned with the re­ward mon­ey. “The Quib­bler's go­ing for a new an­gle, then?: Har­ry asked cold­ly, his mind work­ing very fast. ”Is that what you were do­ing when you went in­to the gar­den, Mr. Love­good? Send­ing an owl to the Min­istry? Xenophilius licked his lips “They took my Lu­na,” he whis­pered, “Be­cause of what I've been writ­ing. They took my Lu­na and I don't know where she is, what they've done to her. But they might give her back to me if I -- If I--” “Hand over Har­ry?” Hermione fin­ished for him. “No deal.” said Ron flat­ly. “Get out of the way, we're leav­ing.” Xenophilius looked ghast­ly, a cen­tu­ry old, his lips drawn back in­to a dread­ful leer. “They will be here any mo­ment. I must save Lu­na. I can­not lose Lu­na. You must not leave.” He spread his arms in front of the stair­case, and Har­ry had a sud­den vi­sion of his moth­er do­ing the same thing in front of his crib. “Don't make us hurt you,” Har­ry said. “Get out of the way, Mr. Love­good.” “HAR­RY!” Hermione screamed. Fig­ures on broom­sticks were fly­ing past the win­dows. As the three of them looked away from him. Xenophilius drew his wand. Har­ry re­al­ized their mis­take just in time. He launched him­self side­ways, shov­ing Ron and Hermione out of harm's way as Xenophilius's Stun­ning Spell soared across the room and hit the Erumpent horn. There was a colos­sal ex­plo­sion. The sound of it seemed to blow the room apart. Frag­ments of wood and pa­per and rub­ble flew in all di­rec­tions, along with an im­pen­etra­ble cloud of thick white dust. Har­ry flew through the air, then crashed to the floor, un­able to see as de­bris rained up­on him, his arms over his head. He heard Hermione's scream, Ron's yell, and a se­ries of sick­en­ing metal­lic thuds which told him that Xenophilius had been blast­ed off his feet and fall­en back­ward down the spi­ral stairs. Half buried in rub­ble, Har­ry tried to raise him­self. He could bare­ly breathe or see for dust. Half of the ceil­ing had fall in and the end of Lu­na's bead was hang­ing through the hole. The bust of Rowe­na Raven­claw lay be­side him with half its face miss­ing frag­ments of torn parch­ment were float­ing through the air, and most of the print­ing press lay on its side, block­ing the top of the stair­case to the kitchen. Then an­oth­er white shape moved close by, and Hermione, coat­ed in dust like a sec­ond stat­ue, pressed his fin­ger to her lips. The door down­stairs crashed open. “Didn't I tell you there was no need to hur­ry, Travers?” said a rough voice. “Didn't I tell you this nut­ter was just rav­ing as usu­al?” There was a bang and a scream of pain from Xenophilius. “No...no...up­stairs...Pot­ter!” “I told you last week Love­good, we weren't com­ing back for any­thing less than some sol­id in­for­ma­tion! Re­mem­ber last week? When you want­ed to swap your daugh­ter for that stupid bleed­ing head­dress? And the week be­fore” -- An­oth­er bang, an­oth­er squeal -- “When you thought we'd give her back if you of­fered us proof there are Cumple” -- Bang -- “Head­ed”--bang--“Snorkacks?” “No -- no -- I beg of you!” sobbed Xenophilius. “It re­al­ly is Pot­ter, Re­al­ly!” “And now it turns out you on­ly called us here to try and blow us up!” roared the Death Eater, and there was a vol­ley of bangs in­ter­spersed with squeals of agony from Xenophilius. “The place looks like it's about to fall in, Sel­wyn,” said a cool sec­ond voice, echo­ing up the man­gled stair­case. “The stairs are com­plete­ly blocked. Could try clear­ing it? Might bring the place down.” “You ly­ing piece of filth.” shout­ed the wiz­ard named Sel­wyn. “You have nev­er seen Pot­ter in your life, have you? Thought you'd lure us here to kill us, did you? And you think you'll get your girl back like this?” “I swear...I swear...Pot­ter's up­stairs!” “Home­num rev­elio.” said the voice at the foot of the stairs. Har­ry heard Hermione gasp, and he had the odd sen­sa­tion some­thing was swoop­ing low over him, im­mers­ing his body in its shad­ow. “There's some­one up there all right, Sel­wyn,” said the sec­ond man sharply. “It's Pot­ter, I tell you, it's Pot­ter!” sobbed Xenophilius. “Please...please...give me Lu­na, just let me have Lu­na...” “You can have your lit­tle girl, Love­good,” said Sel­wyn, “if you get up those stairs and bring me down Har­ry Pot­ter. But if this is a plot, if it's a trick, if you've got an ac­com­plice wait­ing up there to am­bush us, we'll see if we can spare a bit of your daugh­ter for you to bury.” Xenophilius gave a wail of fear and de­spair. There were scur­ry­ings and scrap­ings. Xenophilius was try­ing to get through the de­bris on the stairs. “Come on,” Har­ry whis­pered, “we've got to get out of here.” He start­ed to dig him­self out un­der cov­er of all the noise Xenophilius was mak­ing on the stair­case. Ron was buried the deep­est. Har­ry and Hermione climbed, as qui­et­ly as they could, over all the wreck­age to where he lay, try­ing to prise a heavy chest of draw­ers off his legs. While Xenophilius bang­ing and scrap­ing drew near­er and near­er, Hermione man­aged to free Ron with the use of a Hov­er Charm. “All right.” breathed Hermione, as the bro­ken print­ing press block­ing the top of the stairs be­gin to trem­ble. Xenophilius was feet away from them. She was still white with dust. “Do you trust me Har­ry?” Har­ry nod­ded. “Okay then.” Hermione whis­pered. “give me the in­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Ron, you're go­ing to put it on.” “Me? But Har­ry --” “Please, Ron! Har­ry, hold on tight to my hand, Ron grab my shoul­der.” Har­ry held out his left hand. Ron van­ished be­neath the Cloak. The print­ing press block­ing the stairs was vi­brat­ing. Xenophilius was try­ing to shift it us­ing a Hov­er Charm. Har­ry did not know what Hermione was wait­ing for. “Hold tight” she whis­pered. “Hold tight...any sec­ond...” Xenophilius's pa­per-​white face ap­peared over the top of the side­board. “Oblivi­ate!” cried Hermione, point­ing her want first in­to his face then at the floor be­neath them. “De­pri­mo!” She had blast­ed a hole in the sit­ting room floor. They fell like boul­ders. Har­ry still hold­ing on­to her hand for dear life, there was a scream from be­low, and he glimpsed two men try­ing to get out of the way as vast quan­ti­ties of rub­ble and bro­ken fur­ni­ture rained all around them from the shat­tered ceil­ing. Hermione twist­ed in midair and thun­der­ing of the col­laps­ing house rang in Har­ry's ears as she dragged him once more in­to dark­ness.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO


THE DETH­LY HAL­LOWS



Har­ry fell, pant­ing, on­to grass and scram­bled up at once. They seemed to have land­ed in the cor­ner of a field at dusk; Hermione was al­ready run­ning in a cir­cle around them, wav­ing her wand.

“Pro­tego To­talum…Salvio Hex­ia…”

“That treach­er­ous old bleed­er.” Ron pant­ed, emerg­ing from be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and throw­ing it to Har­ry. “Hermione you’re a ge­nius, a to­tal ge­nius. I can’t be­lieve we got out of that.”

“Cave In­im­icum…Didn’t I say it was an Frumpent horn, didn’t I tell him? And now his house has been blown apart!”

“Serves him right,” said Ron, ex­am­in­ing his torn jeans and the cuts to his legs, “What’d you reck­on they’ll do to him?”

“Oh I hope they don’t kill him!” groaned Hermione, “That’s why I want­ed the Death Eaters to get a glimpse of Har­ry be­fore we left, so they knew Xenophilius hadn’t been ly­ing!”

“Why hide me though?” asked Ron.

“You’re sup­posed to be in bed with spat­ter­grolt, Ron! They’ve kid­napped Lu­na be­cause her fa­ther sup­port­ed Har­ry! What would hap­pen to your fam­ily if they knew you’re with him?”

“But what about your mum and dad?”

“They’re in Aus­tralia ,” said Hermione, “They should be all right. They don’t know any­thing.”

“You’re a ge­nius,” Ron re­peat­ed, look­ing awed.

Yeah, you are, Hermione,” agreed Har­ry fer­vent­ly. “I don’t know what we’d do with­out you.”

She beamed, but be­came solemn at once.

“What about Lu­na?”

“Well, if they’re telling the truth and she’s still Alive ---“ be­gan Ron.

“Don’t say that, don’t say it!” squealed Hermione. “She must be alive, she must!”

“Then she’ll be in Azk­aban, I ex­pect,” said Ron. “Whether she sur­vives the place, though…Loads don’t…”

“She will,” said Har­ry. He could not bear to con­tem­plate the al­ter­na­tive. “She’s tough, Lu­na, much tougher than you’d think. She’s prob­ably teach­ing all the in­mates about Wrack­spurts and Nar­gles.”

“I hope you’re right,” said Hermione. She passed a hand over her eyes. “I’d feel so sor­ry for Xenophilius if ---“

“---if he hadn’t just tried to sell us to the Death Eaters, yeah,” said Ron.

They put up the tent and re­treat­ed in­side it, where Ron made them tea. Af­ter their nar­row es­cape, the chilly, musty old place felt like home: safe, fa­mil­iar, and friend­ly.

“Oh, why did we go there?” groaned Hermione af­ter a few min­utes’ si­lence. “Har­ry, you were right, it was Go­dric’s Hol­low all over again, a com­plete waste of time! The Death­ly Hal­lows…such rub­bish…al­though ac­tu­al­ly,” a sud­den thought seemed to have struck her, “he might have made it all up, mightn’t he? He prob­ably doesn’t be­lieve in the Death­ly Hal­lows at all, he just want­ed to keep us talk­ing un­til the Death Eaters ar­rived!”

“I don’t think so,” said Ron. “It’s a damn sight hard­er mak­ing stuff up when you’re un­der stress than you’d think. I found that out when the Snatch­ers caught me. It was much eas­ier pre­tend­ing to be Stan, be­cause I knew a bit about him, than in­vent­ing a whole new per­son. Old Love­good was un­der loads of pres­sure, try­ing to make sure we stayed put. I reck­on he told us the truth, or what he thinks is the truth, just to keep us talk­ing.”

“Well, I don’t sup­pose it mat­ters,” sighed Hermione. “Even if he was be­ing hon­est, I nev­er heard such a lot of non­sense in all my life.”

“Hang on, though,” said Ron. “The Cham­ber of Se­crets was sup­posed to be a myth, wasn’t it?”

“But the Death­ly Hal­lows can’t ex­ist, Ron!”

“You keep say­ing that, but one of them can,” said Ron. “Har­ry’s In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak ---“

“The Tale of the Three Broth­ers’ is a sto­ry,” said Hermione firm­ly. “A sto­ry about how hu­mans are fright­ened of death. If sur­viv­ing was as sim­ple as hid­ing un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, we’d have ev­ery­thing we need al­ready!”

“I don’t know. We could do with an un­beat­able wand,” said Har­ry, turn­ing the black­thorn wand he so dis­liked over in his fin­gers.

“There’s no such thing, Har­ry!”

“You said there have been loads of wands --- the Death­stick and what­ev­er they were called ---“

“All right, even if you want to kid your­self the El­der Wand’s re­al, what about the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone?” Her fin­gers sketched quo­ta­tion marks around the name, and her tone dripped sar­casm. “No mag­ic can raise the dead, and that’s that!”

“When my wand con­nect­ed with You-​Know-​Who’s, it made my mum and dad ap­pear…and Cedric…”

“But they weren’t re­al­ly back from the dead, were they?” said Hermione. “Those kind of ---of pale im­ita­tions aren’t the same as tru­ly bring­ing some­one back to life.”

“But she, the girl in the tale, didn’t re­al­ly come back, did she? The sto­ry says that once peo­ple are dead, they be­long with the dead. But the sec­ond broth­er still got to see her and talk to her, didn’t he? He even lived with her for a while…”

He saw con­cern and some­thing less eas­ily de­fin­able in Hermione’s ex­pres­sion. Then, as she glanced at Ron, Har­ry re­al­ized that it was fear: He had scared her with his talk of liv­ing with dead peo­ple.

“So that Peverell bloke who’s buried in Go­dric’s Hol­low,” he said hasti­ly, try­ing to sound ro­bust­ly sane, “you don’t know any­thing about him, then?”

“No,” she replied, look­ing re­lieved at the change of sub­ject. “I looked him up af­ter I saw the mark on his grave; if he’d been any­one fa­mous or done any­thing im­por­tant, I’m sure he’d be in one of our books. The on­ly place I’ve man­aged to find the name ‘Peverell’ Is Na­ture’s No­bil­ity: A Wiz­ard­ing Ge­neal­ogy. I bor­rowed it from Kreach­er,” she ex­plained as Ron raised his eye­brows. “It lists the pure-​blood fam­ilies that are now ex­tinct in the male line. Ap­par­ent­ly the Peverells were one of the ear­li­est fam­ilies to van­ish.”

“Ex­tinct in the male line?” re­peat­ed Ron.

“It means the name died out,” said Hermione, “cen­turies ago, in the case of the Peverells. They could still have de­scen­dents, though, they’d just be called some­thing dif­fer­ent.”

And then it came to Har­ry in one shin­ing piece, the mem­ory that had stirred at the sound of the name “Peverell”: a filthy old man bran­dish­ing an ug­ly ring in the face of a Min­istry of­fi­cial, and he cried aloud, “Mar­vo­lo Gaunt!”

“Sor­ry said Ron and Hermione to­geth­er.

“Mar­vo­lo Gaunt! You-​Know-​Who’s grand­fa­ther! In the Pen­sieve! With Dum­ble­dore! Mar­vo­lo Gaunt said he was de­scend­ed from the Peverells!”

Ron and Hermione looked be­wil­dered.

“The ring, the ring that be­came the Hor­crux, Mar­vo­lo Gaunt said it had the Peverell coat of arms on it! I saw him wav­ing it in the bloke from the Min­istry’s face, he near­ly shoved it up his nose!”

“The Peverell coat of arms?” said Hermione sharply. “Could you see what it looked like?”

“Not re­al­ly,” said Har­ry, try­ing to re­mem­ber. “There was noth­ing fan­cy on there, as far as I could see; maybe a few scratch­es. I on­ly ev­er saw it re­al­ly close up af­ter it had been cracked open.”

Har­ry saw Hermione’s com­pre­hen­sion in the sud­den widen­ing of her eyes. Ron was look­ing from one to the oth­er, as­ton­ished.

“Blimey…You reck­on it was this sign again? The sign of the Hal­lows?

“Why not said Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly, “Mar­vo­lo Gaunt was an ig­no­rant old git who lived like a pig, all he cared about was his an­ces­try. If that ring had been passed down through the cen­turies, he might not have known what it re­al­ly was. There were no books in that house, and trust me, he wasn’t the type to read fairy tales to his kids. He’d have loved to think the scratch­es on the stone were a coat of arms, be­cause as far as he was con­cerned, hav­ing pure blood made you prac­ti­cal­ly roy­al.”

“Yes…and that’s all very in­ter­est­ing,” said Hermione cau­tious­ly, “but Har­ry, if you’re think­ing what I think you’re think ---“

“Well, why not? Why not? said Har­ry, aban­don­ing cau­tion. “It was a stone, wasn’t it?” He looked at Ron for sup­port. “What if it was the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone?”

Ron’s mouth fell open.

“Blimey --- but would it still work if Dum­ble­dore broke --- ?”

“Work? Work? Ron, it nev­er worked! There’s no such thing as a Res­ur­rec­tion Stone!”

Hermione leapt to her feet, look­ing ex­as­per­at­ed and an­gry. Har­ry you’re try­ing to fit ev­ery­thing in­to the Hal­lows sto­ry ---“

“Fit ev­ery­thing in?” he re­peat­ed. “Hermione, it fits of its own ac­cord! I know the sign of the Death­ly Hal­lows was on that stone! Gaunt said he was de­scend­ed from the Peverells!”

“A minute ago you told us you nev­er saw the mark on the stone prop­er­ly!”

“Where’d you reck­on the ring is now?” Ron asked Har­ry. “What did Dum­ble­dore do with it af­ter he broke it open?”

“But Har­ry’s imag­ina­tion was rac­ing ahead, far be­yond Ron and Hermione’s…

Three ob­jects, or Hal­lows, which, if unit­ed, will make the pos­ses­sor mas­ter of Death…Mas­ter…Con­queror…Van­quish­er…The last en­emy that shall be de­stroyed is death…

And he saw him­self, pos­ses­sor of the Hal­lows, fac­ing Volde­mort, whose Hor­crux­es were no match…Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives…Was this the an­swer? Hal­lows ver­sus Hor­crux­es? Was there a way af­ter all, to en­sure that he was the one who tri­umphed? If he were the mas­ter of the Death­ly Hal­lows, would he be safe?

“Har­ry?”

But he scarce­ly heard Hermione: He had pulled out his In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and was run­ning it through his fin­gers, the cloth sup­ple as wa­ter, light as air. He had nev­er seen any­thing to equal it in his near­ly sev­en years in the Wiz­ard­ing world. The Cloak was ex­act­ly what Xenophilius had de­scribed: A cloak that re­al­ly and tru­ly ren­ders the wear­er com­plete­ly in­vis­ible, and en­dures eter­nal­ly, giv­ing con­stant and im­pen­etra­ble con­ceal­ment, no mat­ter what spells are cast at it…

And then, with a gasp, he re­mem­bered—

“Dum­ble­dore had my Cloak the night my par­ents died!”

His voice shook and he could feel the col­or in his face, but he did not care.

“My mum told Sir­ius that Dum­ble­dore bor­rowed the Cloak! This is why! He want­ed to ex­am­ine it, be­cause he thought it was the third Hal­low! Ig­no­tus Peverell is buried in Go­dric’s Hol­low…” Har­ry was walk­ing blind­ly around the tent, feel­ing as though great new vis­tas of truth were open­ing all around him. “He’s my an­ces­tor. I’m de­scend­ed from the third broth­er! It all makes sense!”

“He felt armed in cer­tain­ty, in his be­lief in the Hal­lows, as if the mere idea of pos­sess­ing them was giv­ing him pro­tec­tion, and he felt joy­ous as he turned back to the oth­er two.

“Har­ry,” said Hermione again, but he was busy un­do­ing the pouch around his neck, his fin­gers shak­ing hard.

“Read it,” he told her, push­ing his moth­er’s let­ter in­to her hand. “Read it! Dum­ble­dore had the Cloak, Hermione! Why else would he want it? He didn’t need a Cloak, he could per­form a Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm so pow­er­ful that he made him­self com­plete­ly in­vis­ible with­out one!”

Some­thing fell to the floor and rolled, glit­ter­ing, un­der a chair: He had dis­lodged the Snitch when he pulled out the let­ter. He stooped to pick it up, and then the new­ly tapped spring of fab­ulous dis­cov­er­ies threw him an­oth­er gift, and shock and won­der erupt­ed in­side him so that he shout­ed out.

“IT’S IN HERE! He left me the ring – it’s in the Snitch!”

“You --- you reck­on?”

He could not un­der­stand why Ron looked tak­en aback. It was so ob­vi­ous, so clear to Har­ry. Ev­ery­thing fit, ev­ery­thing…His Cloak was the third Hal­low, and when he dis­cov­ered how to open the Snitch he would have the sec­ond, and then all he need­ed to do was find the first Hal­low, the El­der Wand, and then ---

But it was as though a cur­tain fell on a lit stage: All his ex­cite­ment, all his hope and hap­pi­ness were ex­tin­guished at a stroke, and he stood alone in the dark­ness, and the glo­ri­ous spell was bro­ken.

“That’s what he’s af­ter.”

The change in his voice made Ron and Hermione look even more scared.

“You-​Know-​Who’s af­ter the El­der Wand.”

He turned his back on their strained, in­cred­ulous faces. He knew it was the truth. It all made sense, Volde­mort was not seek­ing a new wand; he was seek­ing an old wand, a very old wand in­deed. Har­ry walked to the en­trance of the tent, for­get­ting about Ron and Hermione as he looked out in­to the night, think­ing…

Volde­mort had been raised in a Mug­gle or­phan­age. No­body could have told him The Tales of Bee­dle the Bard when he was a child, any more than Har­ry had heard them. Hard­ly any wiz­ards be­lieved in the Death­ly Hal­lows. Was it like­ly that Volde­mort knew about them?

Har­ry gazed in­to the dark­ness…If Volde­mort had known about the Death­ly Hal­lows, sure­ly he would have sought them, done any­thing to pos­sess them: three ob­jects that made the pos­ses­sor mas­ter of Death? If he had known about the Death­ly Hal­lows, he might not have need­ed Hor­crux­es in the first place. Didn’t the sim­ple fact that he had tak­en a Hal­low, and turned it in­to a Hor­crux, demon­strate that he did not know this last great Wiz­ard­ing se­cret?

Which meant that Volde­mort sought the El­der Wand with­out re­al­iz­ing its full pow­er, with­out un­der­stand­ing that it was one of three…for the wand was the Hal­low that could not be hid­den, whose ex­is­tence was best known…The bloody trail of the El­der Wand is splat­tered across the pages of Wiz­ard­ing his­to­ry…

Har­ry watched the cloudy sky, curves of smoke-​gray and sil­ver slid­ing over the face of the white moon. He felt light­head­ed with amaze­ment at his dis­cov­er­ies.

He turned back in­to the tent. It was a shock to see Ron and Hermione stand­ing ex­act­ly where he had left them, Hermione still hold­ing Lily’s let­ter, Ron at her side look­ing slight­ly anx­ious. Didn’t they re­al­ize how far they had trav­eled in the last few min­utes?

“This is it?” Har­ry said, try­ing to bring them in­side the glow of his own as­ton­ished cer­tain­ty, “This ex­plains ev­ery­thing. The Death­ly Hal­lows are re­al and I’ve got one --- maybe two ---“

He held up the Snitch.

“--- and You-​Know-​Who’s chas­ing the third, but he doesn’t re­al­ize…he just thinks it’s a pow­er­ful wand ---“

“Har­ry,” said Hermione, mov­ing across to him and hand­ing him back Lily’s let­ter, “I’m sor­ry, but I think you’ve got this wrong, all wrong.”

“But don’t you see? It all fits ---“

“Not, it doesn’t,” she said. “It doesn’t. Har­ry, you’re just get­ting car­ried away. Please,” she said as she start­ed to speak, “please just an­swer me this: If the Death­ly Hal­lows re­al­ly ex­ist­ed, and Dum­ble­dore knew about them, knew that the per­son who pos­sessed all of them would be mas­ter of Death --- Har­ry, why wouldn’t he have told you? Why?”

He had his an­swer ready.

“But you said it, Hermione! You’ve got to find out about them for your­self! It’s a Quest!”

“But I on­ly said that to try and per­suade you to come to the Love­goods’!” cried Hermione in ex­as­per­ation. “I didn’t re­al­ly be­lieve it!”

Har­ry took no no­tice.

“Dum­ble­dore usu­al­ly let me find out stuff for my­self. He let me try my strength, take risks. This feels like the kind of thing he’d do.”

“Har­ry, this isn’t a game, this isn’t prac­tice! This is the re­al thing, and Dum­ble­dore left you very clear in­struc­tions: Find and de­stroy the Hor­crux­es! That sym­bol doesn’t mean any­thing, for­get the Death­ly Hal­lows, we can’t af­ford to get side­tracked ---“

Har­ry was bare­ly lis­ten­ing to her. He was turn­ing the Snitch over and over in his hands, half ex­pect­ing it to break open, to re­veal the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone, to prove to Hermione that he was right, that the Death­ly Hal­lows were re­al.

She ap­pealed to Ron.

“You don’t be­lieve in this, do you?”

Har­ry looked up, Ron hes­itat­ed.

“I dun­no…I mean…bits of it sort of fit to­geth­er,” said Ron awk­ward­ly, “But when you look at the whole thing…” He took a deep breath. “I think we’re sup­posed to get rid of Hor­crux­es, Har­ry. That’s what Dum­ble­dore told us to do. Maybe…maybe we should for­get about this Hal­lows busi­ness.”

“Thank you, Ron,” said Hermione. “I’ll take first watch.”

And she strode past Har­ry and sat down in the tent en­trance bring­ing the ac­tion to a fierce full stop.

But Har­ry hard­ly slept that night. The idea of the Death­ly Hal­lows had tak­en pos­ses­sion of him, and he could not rest while ag­itat­ing thoughts whirled through his mind: the wand, the stone, and the Cloak, if he could just pos­sess them all…

I open at the close …But what was the close? Why couldn’t he have the stone now? If on­ly he had the stone, he could ask Dum­ble­dore these ques­tions in per­son…and Har­ry mur­mured words to the Snitch in the dark­ness, try­ing ev­ery­thing, even Parsel­tongue, but the gold­en ball would not open…

And the wand, the El­der Wand, where was that hid­den? Where was Volde­mort search­ing now? Har­ry wished his scar would burn and show him Volde­mort’s thoughts, be­cause for the first time ev­er, he and Volde­mort were unit­ed in want­ing the very same thing…Hermione would not like that idea, of course…But then, she did not be­lieve….Xenophilius had been right, in a way…Lim­it­ed, Nar­row, Close-​mind­ed. The truth was that she was scared of the idea of the Death­ly Hal­lows, es­pe­cial­ly of the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone…and Har­ry pressed his mouth again to the Snitch, kiss­ing it, near­ly swal­low­ing it, but the cold medal did not yield…

It was near­ly dawn when he re­mem­bered Lu­na, alone in a cell in Azk­aban, sur­round­ed by de­men­tors, and he sud­den­ly felt ashamed of him­self. He had for­got­ten all about her in his fever­ish con­tem­pla­tion of the Hal­lows. If on­ly they could res­cue her, but de­men­tors in those num­bers would be vir­tu­al­ly unas­sail­able. Now he came to think about it, he had not tried cast­ing a Pa­tronus with the black­thorn wand…He must try that in the morn­ing…

If on­ly there was a way of get­ting a bet­ter wand…

And de­sire for the El­der Wand, the Death­stick, un­beat­able, in­vin­ci­ble, swal­lowed him once more…

They packed up the tent next morn­ing and moved on through a drea­ry show­er of rain. The down­pour pur­sued them to the coast, where they pitched the tent that night, and per­sist­ed through the whole week, through sod­den land­scapes that Har­ry found bleak and de­press­ing. He could think on­ly of the Death­ly Hal­lows. It was as though a flame had been lit in­side him that noth­ing, not Hermione’s flat dis­be­lief nor Ron’s per­sis­tent doubts, could ex­tin­guish. And yet the fiercer the long­ing for the Hal­lows burned in­side him, the less joy­ful it made him. He blamed Ron and Hermione: Their de­ter­mined in­dif­fer­ence was as bad as the re­lent­less rain for damp­en­ing his spir­its, but nei­ther could erode his cer­tain­ty, which re­mained ab­so­lute. Har­ry’s be­lief in and long­ing for the Hal­lows con­sumed him so much that he felt iso­lat­ed from the oth­er two and their ob­ses­sion with the Hor­crux­es.

“Ob­ses­sion?” said Hermione in a low fierce voice, when Har­ry was care­less enough to use the word one evening, af­ter Hermione had told him off for his lack of in­ter­est in lo­cat­ing more Hor­crux­es. “We’re not the one with an ob­ses­sion, Har­ry! We’re the ones try­ing to do what Dum­ble­dore want­ed us to do!”

But he was im­per­vi­ous to the veiled crit­icism. Dum­ble­dore had left the sign of the Hal­lows for Hermione to de­ci­pher, and he had al­so, Har­ry re­mained con­vinced of it, left the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone hid­den in the gold­en Snitch. Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives…mas­ter of Death…Why didn’t Ron and Hermione un­der­stand?

“’The last en­emy shall be de­stroyed is death,’” Har­ry quot­ed calm­ly.

“I thought it was You-​Know-​Who we were sup­posed to be fight­ing?” Hermione re­tort­ed, and Har­ry gave up on her.

Even the mys­tery of the sil­ver doe, which the oth­er two in­sist­ed on dis­cussing, seemed less im­por­tant to Har­ry now, a vague­ly in­ter­est­ing sideshow. The on­ly oth­er thing that mat­tered to him was that his scar had be­gun to prick­le again, al­though he did all he could to hide this fact from the oth­er two. He sought soli­tude when­ev­er it hap­pened, but was dis­ap­point­ed by what he saw. The vi­sions he and Volde­mort were shar­ing had changed in qual­ity; they had be­come blurred, shift­ing as though they were mov­ing in and out of fo­cus. Har­ry was just able to make out the in­dis­tinct fea­tures of an ob­ject that looked like a skull, and some­thing like a moun­tain that was more shad­ow than sub­stance. Used to im­ages sharp as re­al­ity, Har­ry was dis­con­cert­ed by the change. He was wor­ried that the con­nec­tion be­tween him­self and Volde­mort had been dam­aged, a con­nec­tion that he both feared and, what­ev­er he had told Hermione, prized. Some­how Har­ry con­nect­ed these un­sat­is­fy­ing, vague im­ages with the de­struc­tion of his wand, as if it was the black­thorn wand’s fault that he could no longer see in­to Volde­mort’s mind as well as be­fore.

As the weeks crept on, Har­ry could not help but no­tice, even through his new self-​ab­sorp­tion, that Ron seemed to be tak­ing charge. Per­haps be­cause he was de­ter­mined to make up for hav­ing walked out on them, per­haps be­cause Har­ry’s de­scent in­to list­less­ness gal­va­nized his dor­mant lead­er­ship qual­ities, Ron was the one now en­cour­ag­ing and ex­hort­ing the oth­er two in­to ac­tion.

“Three Hor­crux­es left,” he kept say­ing. “We need a plan of ac­tion, come on! Where haven’t we looked? Let’s go through it again. The or­phan­age…”

Di­agon Al­ley, Hog­warts, the Rid­dle House, Bor­gin and Burkes, Al­ba­nia, ev­ery place that they knew Tom Rid­dle had ev­er lived or worked, vis­it­ed or mur­dered, Ron and Hermione raked over them again, Har­ry join­ing in on­ly to stop Hermione pes­ter­ing him. He would have been hap­py to sit alone in si­lence, try­ing to read Volde­mort’s thoughts, to find out more about the El­der Wand, but Ron in­sist­ed on jour­ney­ing to ev­er more un­like­ly places sim­ply, Har­ry was aware, to keep them mov­ing.

“You nev­er know,” was Ron’s con­stant re­frain. “Up­per Fla­gley is a Wiz­ard­ing vil­lage, he might’ve want­ed to live there. Let’s go and have a poke around.”

These fre­quent for­ays in­to Wiz­ard­ing ter­ri­to­ry brought them with­in oc­ca­sion­al sight of Snatch­ers.

“Some of them are sup­posed to be as bad as Death Eaters,” said Ron. “The lot that got me were a bit pa­thet­ic, but Bill re­cons some of them are re­al­ly dan­ger­ous. They said on Pot­ter­watch ---“

“On what?” said Har­ry.

“Pot­ter­watch, didn’t I tell you that’s what it was called? The pro­gram I keep try­ing to get on the ra­dio, the on­ly one that tells the truth about what’s go­ing on! Near­ly all of the pro­grams are fol­low­ing You-​Know-​Who’s line, all ex­cept Pot­ter­watch, I re­al­ly want you to hear it, but it’s tricky tun­ing in…”

Ron spent evening af­ter evening us­ing his wand to beat out var­ious rhythms on top of the wire­less while the di­als whirled. Oc­ca­sion­al­ly they would catch snatch­es of ad­vice on how to treat drag­onpox, and once a few bars of “A Caul­dron Full of Hot, Strong Love.” While he taped, Ron con­tin­ued to try to hit on the cor­rect pass­word, mut­ter­ing strings of ran­dom words un­der his breath.

“They’re nor­mal­ly some­thing to do with the Or­der,” he told them. “Bill had a re­al knack for guess­ing them. I’m bound to get one in the end…”

“But not un­til March did luck fa­vor Ron at last. Har­ry was sit­ting in the tent en­trance, on guard du­ty, star­ing idly at a clump of grape hy­acinths that had forced their way through the chilly ground, when Ron shout­ed ex­cit­ed­ly from in­side the tent.

“I’ve got it, I’ve got it! Pass­word was ‘Al­bus’! Get in here, Har­ry.”

Roused for the first time in days from his con­tem­pla­tion of the Death­ly Hal­lows, Har­ry hur­ried back in­side the tent to find Ron and Hermione kneel­ing on the floor be­side the lit­tle ra­dio. Hermione, who had been pol­ish­ing the sword of Gryffind­or just for some­thing to do, was sit­ting open-​mouthed, star­ing at the tiny speak­er, from which a most fa­mil­iar voice was is­su­ing.

“…apol­ogize for our tem­po­rary ab­sence from the air­waves, which was due to a num­ber of house calls in our area by those charm­ing Death Eaters.”

“But that’s Lee Jor­dan!” said Hermione.

“I know!” beamed Ron. “Cool, eh?”

“…now found our­selves an­oth­er se­cure lo­ca­tion,” Lee was say­ing, and I’m pleased to tell you that two of our reg­ular con­trib­utors have joined me here this evening. Evening, boys!”

“Hi.”

“Evening, Riv­er.”

“’Riv­er’” that’s Lee,” Ron ex­plained. “They’ve all got code names, but you can usu­al­ly tell ---“

“Shh!” said Hermione.

“But be­fore we hear from Roy­al and Ro­mu­lus,” Lee went on, “let’s take a mo­ment to re­port those deaths that the Wiz­ard­ing Wire­less Net­work News and Dai­ly Prophet don’t think im­por­tant enough to men­tion. It is with great re­gret that we in­form our lis­ten­ers of the mur­ders of Ted Tonks and Dirk Cress­well.”

Har­ry felt a sick, swoop­ing in his bel­ly. He, Ron, and Hermione gazed at one an­oth­er in hor­ror.

“A gob­lin by the name of Gor­nuk was al­so killed. It is be­lieved that Mug­gle-​born Dean Thomas and a sec­ond gob­lin, both be­lieved to have been trav­el­ing with Tonks, Cress­well, and Gor­nuk, may have es­caped. If Dean is lis­ten­ing, or if any­one has any knowl­edge of his where­abouts, his par­ents and sis­ters are des­per­ate for news.

“Mean­while, in Gad­dley, a Mug­gle fam­ily of five has been found dead in their home. Mug­gle au­thor­ities are at­tribut­ing their deaths to a gas leak, but mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix in­form me that it was the Killing Curse --- more ev­idence, as if it were need­ed, of the fact that Mug­gle slaugh­ter is be­com­ing lit­tle more than a recre­ation­al sport un­der the new regime.

“Fi­nal­ly, we re­gret to in­form our lis­ten­ers that the re­mains of Bathil­da Bagshot have been dis­cov­ered in Go­dric’s Hol­low. The ev­idence is that she died sev­er­al months ago. The Or­der of the Phoenix in­forms us that her body showed un­mis­tak­able signs of in­juries in­flict­ed by Dark Mag­ic.

“Lis­ten­ers, I’d like to in­vite you now to join us in a minute’s si­lence in mem­ory of Ted Tonks, Dirk Cress­well, Bathil­da Bagshot, Gor­nuk, and the un­named, but no less re­gret­ted, Mug­gles mur­dered by the Death Eaters.”

Si­lence fell, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione did not speak. Half of Har­ry yearned to hear more, half of him was afraid of what might come next. It was the first time he had felt ful­ly con­nect­ed to the out­side world for a long time.

“Thank you,” said Lee’s voice. “And now we can re­turn to reg­ular con­trib­utor Roy­al, for an up­date on how the new Wiz­ard­ing or­der is af­fect­ing the Mug­gle world.”

“Thanks, Riv­er,” said an un­mis­tak­able voice, deep, mea­sured, re­as­sur­ing.

“Kings­ley!” burst out Ron.

“We know!” said Hermione, hush­ing him.

“Mug­gles re­main ig­no­rant of the source of their suf­fer­ing as they con­tin­ue to sus­tain heavy ca­su­al­ties,” said Kings­ley. “How­ev­er, we con­tin­ue to hear tru­ly in­spi­ra­tional sto­ries of wiz­ards and witch­es risk­ing their own safe­ty to pro­tect Mug­gle friends and neigh­bors, of­ten with­out the Mug­gles’ knowl­edge. I’d like to ap­peal to all our lis­ten­ers to em­ulate their ex­am­ple, per­haps by cast­ing a pro­tec­tive charm over any Mug­gle dwellings in your street. Many lives could be saved if such sim­ple mea­sures are tak­en.”

“And what would you say, Roy­al, to those lis­ten­ers who re­ply that in these dan­ger­ous times, it should be ‘Wiz­ards first’? asked Lee.

“I’d say that it’s one short step from ‘Wiz­ards first’ to ‘Pure­bloods first,’ and then to ‘Death Eaters,’” replied Kings­ley. “We’re all hu­man, aren’t we? Ev­ery hu­man life is worth the same, and worth sav­ing.”

“Ex­cel­lent­ly put, Roy­al, and you’ve got my vote for Min­is­ter of Mag­ic if we ev­er get out of this mess,” said Lee. “And now, over to Ro­mu­lus for our pop­ular fea­ture ‘Pals of Pot­ter.’”

“Thanks, Riv­er,” said an­oth­er very fa­mil­iar voice. Ron start­ed to speak, but Hermione fore­stalled him in a whis­per.

“We know it’s Lupin!”

“Ro­mu­lus, do you main­tain, as you have ev­ery time you’ve ap­peared on our pro­gram, that Har­ry Pot­ter is still alive?”

“I do,” said Lupin firm­ly. “There is no doubt at all in my mind that his death would be pro­claimed as wide­ly as pos­si­ble by the Death Eaters if it had hap­pened, be­cause it would strike a dead­ly blow at the morale of those re­sist­ing the new regime. ‘The Boy Who Lived’ re­mains a sym­bol of ev­ery­thing for which we are fight­ing: the tri­umph of good, the pow­er of in­no­cence, the need to keep re­sist­ing.”

A mix­ture of grat­itude and shame welled up in Har­ry. Had Lupin for­giv­en him, then, for the ter­ri­ble things he had said when they had last met?

“And what would you say to Har­ry if you knew he was lis­ten­ing, Ro­mu­lus?”

“I’d tell him we’re all with him in spir­it,” said Lupin, then hes­itat­ed slight­ly, “And I’d tell him to fol­low his in­stincts, which are good and near­ly al­ways right.”

Har­ry looked at Hermione, whose eyes were full of tears.

“Near­ly al­ways right,” she re­peat­ed.

“Oh, didn’t I tell you?” said Ron in sur­prise. “Bill told me Lupin’s liv­ing with Tonks again! And ap­par­ent­ly she’s get­ting pret­ty big too…”

“…and our usu­al up­date on those friends of Har­ry Pot­ter’s who are suf­fer­ing for their al­le­giance?” Lee was say­ing.

“Well, as reg­ular lis­ten­ers will know, sev­er­al of the more out­spo­ken sup­port­ers of Har­ry Pot­ter have now been im­pris­oned, in­clud­ing Xenophilius Love­good, erst­while ed­itor of The Quib­bler,” said Lupin.

“At least he’s still alive!” mut­tered Ron.

“We have al­so heard with­in the last few hours that Rubeus Ha­grid” – all three of them gasped, and so near­ly missed the rest of the sen­tence -- “well-​known game­keep­er at Hog­warts School , has nar­row­ly es­caped ar­rest with­in the grounds of Hog­warts, where he is ru­mored to have host­ed a ‘Sup­port Har­ry Pot­ter’ par­ty in his house. How­ev­er, Ha­grid was not tak­en in­to cus­tody, and is, we be­lieve, on the run.”

“I sup­pose it helps, when es­cap­ing from Death Eaters, if you’ve got a six­teen-​foot-​high half broth­er?” asked Lee.

“It would tend to give you an edge,” agreed Lupin grave­ly. “May I just add that while we here at Pot­ter­watch ap­plaud Ha­grid’s spir­it, we would urge even the most de­vot­ed of Har­ry’s sup­port­ers against fol­low­ing Ha­grid’s lead. ‘Sup­port Har­ry Pot­ter’ par­ties are un­wise in the present cli­mate.”

“In­deed they are, Ro­mu­lus ,” said Lee, “so we sug­gest that you con­tin­ue to show your de­vo­tion to the man with the light­ning scar by lis­ten­ing to Pot­ter­watch! And now let’s move to news con­cern­ing the wiz­ard who is prov­ing just as elu­sive as Har­ry Pot­ter. We like to re­fer to him as the Chief Death Eater, and here to give his views on some of the more in­sane ru­mors cir­cu­lat­ing about him, I’d like to in­tro­duce a new cor­re­spon­dent. Ro­dent?”

“’Ro­dent’?” said yet an­oth­er fa­mil­iar voice, and Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione cried out to­geth­er:

“Fred!”

“No – is it George?”

“It’s Fred, I think,” said Ron, lean­ing in clos­er, as whichev­er twin it was said,

“I’m not be­ing ‘Ro­dent,’ no way, I told you I want­ed to be ‘Rapi­er’!”

“Oh, all right then, ‘Rapi­er,’ could you please give us your take on the var­ious sto­ries we’ve been hear­ing about the Chief Death Eater?”

“Yes, Riv­er, I can,” said Fred. “As our lis­ten­ers will know, un­less they’ve tak­en refuge at the bot­tom of a gar­den pond or some­where sim­ilar, You-​Know-​Who’s strat­egy of re­main­ing in the shad­ows is cre­at­ing a nice lit­tle cli­mate of pan­ic. Mind you, if all the al­leged sight­ings of him are gen­uine, we must have a good nine­teen You-​Know-​Whos run­ning around the place.”

“Which suits him, of course,” said Kings­ley. “The air of mys­tery is cre­at­ing more ter­ror than ac­tu­al­ly show­ing him­self.”

“Agreed,” said Fred. “So, peo­ple, let’s try and calm down a bit. Things are bad enough with­out in­vent­ing stuff as well. For in­stance, this new idea that You-​Know-​Who can kill peo­ple with a sin­gle glance from his eyes. That’s a basilisk, lis­ten­ers. One sim­ple test: Check whether the thing that’s glar­ing at you has got legs. If it has, it’s safe to look in­to its eyes, al­though if it re­al­ly is You-​Know-​Who, that’s still like­ly to be the last thing you ev­er do.”

For the first time in weeks and weeks, Har­ry was laugh­ing: He could feel the weight of ten­sion leav­ing him.

“And the ru­mors that he keeps be­ing sight­ed abroad?” asked Lee.

“Well, who wouldn’t want a nice lit­tle hol­iday af­ter all the hard work he’s been putting in?” asked Fred. “Point is, peo­ple, don’t get lulled in­to a false sense of se­cu­ri­ty, think­ing he’s out of the coun­try. Maybe he is, maybe he isn’t, but the fact re­mains he can move faster than Severus Snape con­front­ed with sham­poo when he wants to, so don’t count on him be­ing a long way away if you’re plan­ning to take any risks. I nev­er thought I’d hear my­self say it, but safe­ty first!”

“Thank you very much for those wise words, Rapi­er,” said Lee. ”Lis­ten­ers, that brings us to the end of an­oth­er Pot­ter­watch. We don’t know when it will be pos­si­ble to broad­cast again, but you can be sure we shall be back. Keep twid­dling those di­als: The next pass­word will be ‘Mad-​Eye.’ Keep each oth­er safe: Keep faith. Good night.”

The ra­dio’s di­al twirled and the lights be­hind the tun­ing pan­el went out. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione were still beam­ing. Hear­ing fa­mil­iar, friend­ly voic­es was an ex­traor­di­nary ton­ic; Har­ry had be­come so used to their iso­la­tion he had near­ly for­got­ten that oth­er peo­ple were re­sist­ing Volde­mort. It was like wak­ing from a long sleep.

“Good, eh?” said Ron hap­pi­ly.

“Bril­liant,” said Har­ry.

“It’s so brave of them,” sighed Hermione ad­mir­ing­ly. “If they were found …”

“Well, they keep on the move, don’t they?” said Ron. “Like us.”

“But did you hear what Fred said?” asked Har­ry ex­cit­ed­ly; now the broad­cast was over, his thoughts turned around to­ward his all con­sum­ing ob­ses­sion. “He’s abroad! He’s still look­ing for the Wand, I knew it!”

“Har­ry—“

“Come on, Hermione, why are you so de­ter­mined not to ad­mit it? Vol –“

“HAR­RY, NO!”

“—de­mort’s af­ter the El­der Wand!”

“The name’s Taboo!” Ron bel­lowed, leap­ing to his feet as a loud crack sound­ed out­side the tent. “I told you, Har­ry, I told you, we can’t say it any­more – we’ve got to put the pro­tec­tion back around us – quick­ly – it’s how they find –“

But Ron stopped talk­ing, and Har­ry knew why. The Sneako­scope on the ta­ble had lit up and be­gun to spin; they could hear voic­es com­ing near­er and near­er: rough, ex­cit­ed voic­es. Ron pulled the De­lu­mi­na­tor out of his pock­et and clicked it: Their lamps went out.

“Come out of there with your hands up!” came a rasp­ing voice through the dark­ness. “We know you’re in there! You’ve got half a dozen wands point­ing at you and we don’t care who we curse!”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE


MAL­FOY MANOR



Har­ry looked around at the oth­er two, now mere out­lines in the dark­ness. He saw Hermione point her wand, set to­ward the out­side, but in­to his face; there was a bang, a burst of white light, and he buck­led in agony, un­able to see. He could feel his face swelling rapid­ly un­der his hands as heavy foot­falls sur­round­ed him.

“Get up, ver­min.”

Un­known hands dragged Har­ry rough­ly off the ground, be­fore he could stop them, some­one had rum­maged through his pock­ets and re­moved the black­thorn wand. Har­ry clutched at his ex­cru­ci­at­ing­ly painful face, which felt un­rec­og­niz­able be­neath his fin­gers, tight, swollen, and puffy as though he had suf­fered some vi­olent al­ler­gic re­ac­tion. His eyes had been re­duced to slits through which he could bare­ly see; his glass­es fell off as he was bun­dled out of the tent: all he could make out were the blurred shapes of four or five peo­ple wrestling Ron and Hermione out­side too.

“Get -- off - her!” Ron shout­ed. There was the un­mis­tak­able sound of knuck­les hit­ting flesh: Ron grunt­ed in pain and Hermione screamed, “No! Leave him alone, leave him alone!”

“Your boyfriend's go­ing to have worse than that done to him if he's on my list,” said the hor­ri­bly fa­mil­iar, rasp­ing voice. “De­li­cious girl... what a treat . . . I do en­joy the soft­ness of the skin. . . .”

Har­ry's stom­ach turned over. He knew who this was, Fen­rit Grey­back, the were­wolf who was per­mit­ted to wear Death Eater robes in re­turn for his hired sav­agery.

“Search the tent!” said an­oth­er voice.

Har­ry was thrown face down on­to the ground. A thud told him that Ron had been cast down be­side him. They could hear foot­steps and crash­es; the men were push­ing over chairs in­side the tent as they searched.

“Now, let's see who we've got,” said Grey­back's gloat­ing voice from over­head, and Har­ry was rolled over on­to his back. A beam of wand light fell on­to his face and Grey­back laughed.

“I'll be need­ing but­ter­beer to wash this one down. What hap­pened to you, ug­ly?”

Har­ry did not an­swer im­me­di­ate­ly.

“I said,” re­peat­ed Grey­back, and Har­ry re­ceived a blow to the di­aphragm that made him dou­ble over in pain. “what hap­pened to you?”

“Stung.” Har­ry mut­tered. “Been Stung.”

“Yeah, looks like it.” said a sec­ond voice.

“What’s your name?” snarled Grey­back.

“Dud­ley.” said Har­ry.

“And your first name?”

“I -- Ver­non . Ver­non Dud­ley.”

“Check the list, Scabior.” said Grey­back, and Har­ry head him move side­ways to look down at Ron, in­stead. “And what about you, gin­ger?”

“Stan Shun­pike.” said Ron.

“Like 'ell you are.” said the man called Scabior. “We know Stan Shun­pike, 'e's put a bit of work our way.”

There was an­oth­er thud.

“I'b Bardy,” said Ron, and Har­ry could tell that his mouth was full of blood. “Bardy Weasley.”

“A Weasley?” rasped Grey­back. “So you're re­lat­ed to blood traitors even if you're not a Mud­blood. And last­ly, your pret­ty lit­tle friend . . .” The rel­ish in his voice made Har­ry's flesh crawl.

“Easy, Grey­back.” said Scabior over the jeer­ing of the oth­ers.

"Oh, I'm not go­ing to bite just yet. We'll see if she’s a bit quick­er at re­mem­ber­ing her name than Barny. Who are you, girly?

“Pene­lope Clear­wa­ter.” said Hermione. She sound­ed ter­ri­fied, but con­vinc­ing.

“What's your blood sta­tus?”

“Half-​Blood.” said Hermione.

“Easy enough to check,” said Scabior. “But the 'ole lot of 'em look like they could still be 'og­warts age -”

“We'b lebt,” said Ron.

“Left, 'ave you, gin­ger?” said Scabior. “And you de­cid­ed to go camp­ing? And you thought, just for a laugh, you'd use the Dark Lords name?”

“Nod a laugh,” said Ron. “Ag­gi­den.”

“Ac­ci­dent?” There was more jeer­ing laugh­ter.

“You know who used to like us­ing the Dark Lord's name, Weasley?” growled Grey­back, “The Or­der of the Phoenix . Mean any­thing to you?”

“Doh.”

“Well, they don't show the Dark Lord prop­er re­spect, so the name's been Tabooed. A few Or­der mem­bers have been tracked that way. We'll see. Bind them up with the oth­er two pris­on­ers!”

Some­one yanked Har­ry up by the hair, dragged him a short way, pushed him down in­to a sit­ting po­si­tion, then start­ed bind­ing him back-​to-​back with oth­er peo­ple. Har­ry was still half blind, bare­ly able to see any­thing through his puffed-​up eyes. When at last the man ty­ing then had walked away, Har­ry whis­pered to the oth­er pris­on­ers.

“Any­one still got a wand?”

“No.” Said Ron and Hermione from ei­ther side of him.

“This is all my fault. I said the name. I'm sor­ry -”

“Har­ry?”

It was a new, but fa­mil­iar voice. and it came from di­rect­ly be­hind Har­ry, from the per­son tied to Hermione's left.

“Dean?”

“It is you! If they find out who they've got -! They're Snatch­ers, they're on­ly look­ing for tru­ants to sell for gold -”

“Not a bad lit­tle haul for one night.” Grey­back was say­ing, as a pair of hob­nailed boots marched close by Har­ry and they heard more crash­es from in­side the tent. “A Mud­blood, a run­away gob­lin, and these tru­ants. You checked their names on the list yet, Scabior?” he roared.

“Yeah. There's no Ver­non Dud­ley un 'ere, Grey­back.”

“In­ter­est­ing,” said Grey­back. “That's in­ter­est­ing.”

He crouched down be­side Har­ry, who saw, through the in­finites­imal gap left be­tween his swollen eye­lids, a face cov­ered in mat­ted gray hair and whiskers, with point­ed brown teeth and sores in the cor­ners of his mouth. Grey­back smelled as he had done at the top of the tow­er where Dum­ble­dore had died: of dirt, sweat, and blood.

“So you aren't want­ed, then, Ver­non ? Or are you on that list un­der a dif­fer­ent name? What house were you in at Hog­warts?”

“Slytherin,” said Har­ry au­to­mat­ical­ly.

“Fun­ny 'ow they all thinks we wants to 'ear that.” leered Scabior out of the shad­ows. “But none of 'em can tell us where the com­mon room is.”

“It's in the dun­geons.” said Har­ry clear­ly. “You en­ter through the wall. It's full of skulls and stuff and its un­der the lake, so the light's all green,”

There was a short pause.

“Well, well, looks like we re­al­ly 'ave caught a lit­tle Slytherin.” said Scabior. “Good for you, Ver­non , 'cause there ain't a lot of Mud­blood Slytherins. Who's your fa­ther?”

“He works at the Min­istry,” Har­ry lied. He knew that his whole sto­ry would col­lapse with the small­est in­ves­ti­ga­tion, but on the oth­er hand, he on­ly had un­til his face re­gained its usu­al ap­pear­ance be­fore the game was up in any case. “De­part­ment of Mag­ical Ac­ci­dents and Catas­tro­phes.”

“You know what, Grey­back,” said Scabior. “I think there is a Dud­ley in there.”

Har­ry could bare­ly breathe: Could luck, sheer luck, get them safe­ly out of this?

“Well, well.” said Grey­back, and Har­ry could hear the tini­est note of trep­ida­tion in that cal­lous voice, and knew that Grey­back was won­der­ing whether he had just in­deed just at­tacked and bound the son of a Min­istry Of­fi­cial. Har­ry's heart was pound­ing against the ropes around his ribs; he would not have been sur­prised to know that Grey­back could see it. “If you're telling the truth, ug­ly, you've got noth­ing to fear from a trip to the Min­istry. I ex­pect your fa­ther'll re­ward us just for pick­ing you up.”

“But,” said Har­ry, his mouth bone dry, “if you just let us -”

“Hey!” came a shout from in­side the tent. “Look at this. Grey­back!”

A dark fig­ure came bustling to­ward them, and Har­ry saw a glint of sil­ver to the light of their wands. They had found Gryffind­or's sword.

“Ve-​e-​ery nice,” said Grey­back ap­pre­cia­tive­ly, tak­ing it from his com­pan­ion. “Oh, very nice in­deed. Looks gob­lin-​made, that. Where did you get some­thing like this?”

“It's my fa­ther's,” Har­ry lied, hop­ing against hope that it was too dark for Grey­back to see the name etched just be­low the hilt. “We bor­rowed it to cut fire­wood -”

“'ang on a minute, Grey­back! Look at this, in the Prophet!”

As Scabior said it, Har­ry's scar, which was stretched tight across his dis­tend­ed fore­head, burned sav­age­ly. More clear­ly than he could make out any­thing around him, he saw a tow­er­ing build­ing, a grim fortress, jet-​black and for­bid­ding: Volde­mort's thoughts had sud­den­ly be­come Ra­zor-​Sharp again; he was glid­ing to­ward the gi­gan­tic build­ing with a sense of calm­ly eu­phoric pur­pose . . .

So close . . . So close . . .

With a huge ef­fort of will Har­ry closed his mind to Volde­mort's thoughts, pulling him­self back to where he sat, tied to Ron, Hermione, Dean, and Griphook in the dark­ness, lis­ten­ing to Grey­back and Scabior.

“'Hermione Granger,” Scabior was say­ing, “the Mud­blood who is known to be trav­el­ing with 'ar­ry Pot­ter.”

Har­ry's scar burned in the si­lence, but he made a supreme ef­fort to keep him­self present, nor to slip in­to Volde­mort's mind. He heard the creak of Grey­back's boots as he crouched down, in front of Hermione.

“you know what, lit­tle girly? This pic­ture looks a hell of a lot like you.”

“It isn't! It isn't me!”

Hermione's ter­ri­fied squeak was as good as a con­fes­sion.

“... known to be trav­el­ing with Har­ry Pot­ter,” re­peat­ed Grey­back qui­et­ly.

A still­ness had set­tled over the scene. Har­ry's scar was Exquisite­ly painful, but he strug­gled with all his strength against the pull of Volde­mort's thoughts. It had nev­er been so im­por­tant to re­main in his own right mind.

“Well, this changed things, doesn't it?” whis­pered Grey­back. No­body spoke: Har­ry sensed the gang of Snatch­ers watch­ing, frozen, and felt Hermione's arm trem­bling against his. Grey­back got up and took a cou­ple of steps to where Har­ry sat, crouch­ing down again to stare close­ly at his mis­shapen fea­tures.

“What's that on your fore­head, Ver­non ?” he asked soft­ly, his breath foul in Har­ry's nos­trils as he pressed a filthy fin­ger to the taught scar.

"Don't touch it! Har­ry yelled; he could not stop him­self, he thought he might be sick from the pain of it.

“I thought you wore glass­es, Pot­ter?” breathed Grey­back.

“I found glass­es!” yelped one of the Snatch­ers skulk­ing in the back­ground. “There was glass­es in the tent, Grey­back, wait -”

And sec­onds lat­er Har­ry's glass­es had been rammed back on­to his face. The Snatch­ers were clos­ing in now, peer­ing at him.

“It Is!” rasped Grey­back. “We've caught Pot­ter!”

They all took sev­er­al steps back­ward, stunned by what they had done. Har­ry, still fight­ing to re­main present in his own split­ting head, could think of noth­ing to say. Frag­ment­ed vi­sions were break­ing across the sur­face of his mind -

--He was hid­ing around the high walls of the black fortress--

No, he was Har­ry, tied up and wand­less, in grave dan­ger--

--look­ing up, up to the top­most win­dow, the high­est tow­er--

He was Har­ry, and they were dis­cussing his fate in low voic­es--

--Time to fly . . .

“. . . To the Min­istry?”

“To hell with the Min­istry.” growled Grey­back. “They'll take the cred­it, and we won't get a look in. I say we take him straight to You-​Know-​Who.”

“Will you sum­mon 'im? 'ere?” said Scabior, sound­ing awed, ter­ri­fied.

“No,” snarled Grey­back, “I haven't got -- they say he's us­ing the Mal­foy's place as a base. We'll take the boy there.”

Har­ry thought he knew why Grey­back was not call­ing Volde­mort. The were­wolf might be al­lowed to wear Death Eater robes when they want­ed to use him, but on­ly Volde­mort's in­ner cir­cle were brand­ed with the Dark Mark: Grey­back had not been grant­ed this high­est hon­or.

Har­ry’s scar seared again –

– and he rose in­to the night, fly­ing straight up to the win­dows at the very top of the tow­er –

“. . . com­plete­ly sure it’s him? ‘Cause if it ain’t, Grey­back, we’re dead.”

“Who’s in charge here?” roared Grey­back, cov­er­ing his mo­ment of in­ad­equa­cy. “I say that’s Pot­ter, and him plus his wand, that’s two hun­dred thou­sand Galleons right there! But if you’re too gut­less to come along, any of you, it’s all for me, and with any luck, I’ll get the girl thrown in!”

– The win­dow was the mer­est slit in the black rock, not big enough for a man to en­ter. . . . A skele­tal fig­ure was just vis­ible through it, curled be­neath a blan­ket. . . . Dead, or sleep­ing . . . ?

“All right!” said Scabior. “All right, we’re in! And what about the rest of ‘em, Grey­back, what’ll we do with ‘em?”

“Might as well take the lot. We’ve got two Mud­bloods, that’s an­oth­er ten Galleons. Give me the sword as well. If they’re ru­bies, that’s an­oth­er small for­tune right there.”

The pris­on­ers were dragged to their feet. Har­ry could hear Hermione’s breath­ing, fast and ter­ri­fied.

“Grab hold and make it tight. I’ll do Pot­ter!” said Grey­back, seiz­ing a fist­ful of Har­ry’s hair; Har­ry could feel his long yel­low nails scratch­ing his scalp. “On three! One – two – three –“

They Dis­ap­pa­rat­ed, pulling the pris­on­ers with them. Har­ry strug­gled, try­ing to throw off Grey­back’s hand, but it was hope­less: Ron and Hermione were squeezed tight­ly against him on ei­ther side; he could not sep­arate from the group, and as the breath was squeezed out of him his scar seared more painful­ly still –

– as he forced him­self through the slit of a win­dow like a snake and land­ed, light­ly as va­por in­side the cell-​like room –

The pris­on­ers lurched in­to one an­oth­er as they land­ed in a coun­try lane. Har­ry’s eyes, still puffy, took a mo­ment to ac­cli­ma­tize, then he saw a pair of wrought-​iron gates at the foot of what looked like a long drive. He ex­pe­ri­enced the tini­est trick­le of re­lief. The worst had not hap­pened yet: Volde­mort was not here. He was, Har­ry knew, for he was fight­ing to re­sist the vi­sion, in some strange, fortresslike place, at the top of a tow­er. How long it would take Volde­mort to get to this place, once he knew that Har­ry was here, was an­oth­er mat­ter. . . .

One of the Snatch­ers strode to the gates and shook them.

“How do we get in? They’re locked, Grey­back, I can’t – blimey!”

He whipped his hands away in fright. The iron was con­tort­ing, twist­ing it­self out of the ab­stract furls and coils in­to a fright­en­ing face, which spoke in a clang­ing, echo­ing voice. “State your pur­pose!”

“We’ve got Pot­ter!” Grey­back roared tri­umphant­ly. “We’ve cap­tured Har­ry Pot­ter!”

The gates swung open.

“Come on!” said Grey­back to his men, and the pris­on­ers were shunt­ed through the gates and up the drive, be­tween high hedges that muf­fled their foot­steps. Har­ry saw a ghost­ly white shape above him, and re­al­ized it was an al­bi­no pea­cock. He stum­bled and was dragged on­to his feet by Grey­back; now he was stag­ger­ing along side­ways, tied back-​to-​back to the four oth­er pris­on­er. Clos­ing his puffy eyes, he al­lowed the pain in his scar to over­come him for a mo­ment, want­ing to know what Volde­mort was do­ing, whether he knew yet that Har­ry was caught. . . .

The ema­ci­at­ed fig­ure stirred be­neath its thin blan­ket and rolled over to­ward him, eyes open­ing in a skull of a face. . . . The frail man sat up, great sunken eyes fixed up­on him, up­on Volde­mort, and then he smiled. Most of his teeth were gone. . . .

“So, you have come. I thought you would . . . one day. But your jour­ney was point­less. I nev­er had it.”

“You lie!”

As Volde­mort’s anger throbbed in­side him, Har­ry’s scar threat­ened to burst with pain, and he wrenched his mind back to his own body, fight­ing to re­main present as the pris­on­ers were pushed over grav­el.

Light spilled out over all of them.

“What is this?” said a wom­an’s cold voice.

“We’re here to see He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named!” rasped Grey­back.

“Who are you?”

“You know me!” There was re­sent­ment in the were­wolf’s voice. “Fen­rit Grey­back! We’ve caught Har­ry Pot­ter!”

Grey­back seized Har­ry and dragged him around to face the light, forc­ing the oth­er pris­on­ers to shuf­fle around too.

“I know ‘es swollen, ma’am, but it’s ‘im!” piped up Scabior. “If you look a bit clos­er, you’ll see ‘is scar. And this ‘ere, see the girl? The Mud­blood who’s been trav­el­ing around with ‘im, ma’am. There’s no doubt it’s ‘im, and we’ve got ‘is wand as well! ‘Ere, ma’am –“

Through his puffy eye­lids Har­ry saw Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy scru­ti­niz­ing his swollen face. Scabior thrust the black­thorn wand at her. She raised her eye­brows.

“Bring them in,” she said.

Har­ry and the oth­ers were shoved and kicked up broad stone steps in­to a hall­way lined with por­traits.

“Fol­low me,” said Nar­cis­sa, lead­ing the way across the hall. “My son, Dra­co, is home for his East­er hol­idays. If that is Har­ry Pot­ter, he will know.”

The draw­ing room daz­zled af­ter the dark­ness out­side; even with his eyes al­most closed Har­ry could make out the wide pro­por­tions of the room. A crys­tal chan­de­lier hung from the ceil­ing, more por­traits against the dark pur­ple walls. Two fig­ures rose from chairs in front of an or­nate mar­ble fire­place as the pris­on­ers were forced in­to the room by the Snatch­ers.

“What is this?”

The dread­ful­ly fa­mil­iar, drawl­ing voice of Lu­cius Mal­foy fell on Har­ry’s ears. He was pan­ick­ing now. He could see no way out, and it was eas­ier, as his fear mount­ed, to block out Volde­mort’s thoughts, though his scar was still burn­ing.

“They say they’ve got Pot­ter,” said Nar­cis­sa’s cold voice. “Dra­co, come here.” Har­ry did not dare look di­rect­ly at Dra­co, but saw him oblique­ly; a fig­ure slight­ly taller than he was, ris­ing from an arm­chair, his face a pale and point­ed blur be­neath white-​blond hair.

Grey­back forced the pris­on­ers to turn again so as to place Har­ry di­rect­ly be­neath the chan­de­lier.

“Well, boy?” rasped the were­wolf.

Har­ry was fac­ing a mir­ror over the fire­place, a great gild­ed thing in an in­tri­cate­ly scrolled frame. Through the slits of his eyes he saw his own re­flec­tion for the first time since leav­ing Grim­mauld Place .

His face was huge, shiny, and pink, ev­ery fea­ture dis­tort­ed by Hermione’s jinx. His black hair reached his shoul­ders and there was a dark shad­ow around his jaw. Had he not known that it was he who stood there, he would have won­dered who was wear­ing his glass­es. He re­solved not to speak, for his voice was sure to give him away; yet he still avoid­ed eye con­tact with Dra­co as the lat­ter ap­proached.

“Well, Dra­co?” said Lu­cius Mal­foy. He sound­ed avid. “Is it? Is it Har­ry Pot­ter?” “I can’t – I can’t be sure,” said Dra­co. He was keep­ing his dis­tance from Grey­back, and seemed as scared of look­ing at Har­ry as Har­ry was of look­ing at him.

“But look at him care­ful­ly, look! Come clos­er!”

Har­ry had nev­er heard Lu­cius Mal­foy so ex­cit­ed.

“Dra­co, if we are the ones who hand Pot­ter over to the Dark Lord, ev­ery­thing will be for­giv –“

“Now, we won’t be for­get­ting who ac­tu­al­ly caught him, I hope Mr. Mal­foy?” said Grey­back men­ac­ing­ly.

“Of course not, of course not!” said Lu­cius im­pa­tient­ly. He ap­proached Har­ry him­self, came so close that Har­ry could see the usu­al­ly lan­guid, pale face in sharp de­tail even through his swollen eyes. With his face a puffy mask, Har­ry felt as though he was peer­ing out from be­tween the bars of a cage.

“What did you do to him?” Lu­cius asked Grey­back. “How did he get in­to this state?”

“That wasn’t us.” “Looks more like a Sting­ing Jinx to me,” said Lu­cius.

His gray eyes raked Har­ry’s fore­head.

“There’s some­thing there,” he whis­pered. “it could be the scar, stretched tight. . . .” Dra­co, come here, look prop­er­ly! What do you think?”

Har­ry saw Dra­co’s face up close now, right be­side his fa­ther’s. They were ex­traor­di­nar­ily alike, ex­cept that while his fa­ther looked be­side him­self with ex­cite­ment, Dra­co’s ex­pres­sion was full of re­luc­tance, even fear.

“I don’t know,” he said, and he walked away to­ward the fire­place where his moth­er stood watch­ing.

“We had bet­ter be cer­tain, Lu­cius,” Nar­cis­sa called to her hus­band in her cold, clear voice. “Com­plete­ly sure that it is Pot­ter, be­fore we sum­mon the Dark Lord . . . They say this is his” – she was look­ing close­ly at the black­thorn wand – “but it does not re­sem­ble Ol­li­van­der’s de­scrip­tion. . . . If we are mis­tak­en, if we call the Dark Lord here for noth­ing . . . Re­mem­ber what he did to Rowle and Dolo­hov?”

“What about the Mud­blood, then?” growled Grey­back. Har­ry was near­ly thrown off his feet as the Snatch­ers forced the pris­on­ers to swiv­el around again, so that the light fell on Hermione in­stead.

“Wait,” said Nar­cis­sa sharply. “Yes – yes, she was in Madam Malkin’s with Pot­ter! I saw her pic­ture in the Prophet! Look, Dra­co, isn’t it the Granger girl?”

“I . . . maybe . . . yeah.”

“But then, that’s the Weasley boy!” shout­ed Lu­cius, strid­ing around the bound pris­on­ers to face Ron. “It’s them, Pot­ter’s friends – Dra­co, look at him, isn’t it Arthur Weasley’s son, what’s his name – ?”

“Yeah,” said Dra­co again, his back to the pris­on­ers. “It could be.”

The draw­ing room door opened be­hind Har­ry. A wom­an spoke, and the sound of the voice wound Har­ry’s fear to an even high­er pitch.

“What is this? What’s hap­pened, Cis­sy?”

Bel­la­trix Lestrange walked slow­ly around the pris­on­ers, and stopped on Har­ry’s right, star­ing at Hermione through her heav­ily lid­ded eyes,

“But sure­ly,” she said qui­et­ly, “this is the Mud­blood girl? This is Grander?”

“Yes, yes, it’s Granger!” cried Lu­cius, “And be­side her, we think, Pot­ter! Pot­ter and his friends, caught at last!” “Pot­ter?” shrieked Bel­la­trix, and she backed away, the bet­ter to take in Har­ry. “Are you sure? Well then, the Dark Lord must be in­formed at once!” She dragged back her left sleeve: Har­ry saw the Dark Mark burned in­to the flesh of her arm, and knew that she was about to touch it, to sum­mon her beloved mas­ter–

“I was about to call him!” said Lu­cius, and his hand ac­tu­al­ly closed up­on Bel­la­trix’s wrist, pre­vent­ing her from touch­ing the Mark. “I shall sum­mon him, Bel­la. Pot­ter has been brought to my house, and it is there­fore up­on my au­thor­ity –“

“Your au­thor­ity!” she sneered, at­tempt­ing to wrench her hand from his grasp. “You lost your au­thor­ity when you lost your wand, Lu­cius! How dare you! Take your hands off me!”

“This is noth­ing to do with you, you did not cap­ture the boy –“

“Beg­ging your par­don, Mr. Mal­foy,” in­ter­ject­ed Grey­back, “but it’s us that caught Pot­ter, and it’s us that’ll be claim­ing the gold –“

“Gold!” laughed Bel­la­trix, still at­tempt­ing to throw off her broth­er-​in-​law, her free hand grop­ing in her pock­et for her wand. “Take your gold, filthy scav­enger, what do I want with gold? I seek on­ly the hon­or of his – of –“

She stopped strug­gling, her dark eyes fixed up­on some­thing Har­ry could not see. Ju­bi­lant at her ca­pit­ula­tion, Lu­cius threw her hand from him and ripped up his own sleeve –

“STOP!” shrieked Bel­la­trix, “Do not touch it, we shall all per­ish if the Dark Lord comes now!”

Lu­cius froze, his in­dex fin­ger hov­er­ing over his own Mark. Bel­la­trix strode out of Har­ry’s lim­it­ed line of vi­sion.

“What is that?” he heard her say.

“Sword,” grunt­ed an out-​of-​sight Snatch­er.

“Give it to me.”

“It’s not yours, mis­sus, it’s mine, I reck­on I found it.”

There was a bang and a flash of red light; Har­ry knew that the Snatch­er had been Stunned. There was a roar of anger from his fel­lows: Scabior drew his wand.

“What d’you think you’re play­ing at, wom­an?”

“Stu­pe­fy!” she screamed, ”Stu­pe­fy!”

They were no match for her, even thought there were four of them against one of her: She was a witch, as Har­ry knew, with prodi­gious skill and no con­science. They fell where they stood, all ex­cept Grey­back, who had been forced in­to a kneel­ing po­si­tion, his arms out­stretched. Out of the cor­ners of his eyes Har­ry saw Bel­la­trix bear­ing down up­on the were­wolf, the sword of Gryffind­or gripped tight­ly in her hand, her face wax­en.

“Where did you get this sword?” she whis­pered to Grey­back as she pulled his wand out of his un­re­sist­ing grip.

“How dare you?” he snarled, his mouth the on­ly thing that could move as he was forced to gaze up at her. He bared his point­ed teeth. “Re­lease me, wom­an!” “Where did you find this sword?” she re­peat­ed, bran­dish­ing it in his face, “Snape sent it to my vault in Gringotts!”

“It was in their tent,” rasped Grey­back. “Re­lease me, I say!”

She waved her wand, and the were­wolf sprang to his feet, but ap­peared too wary to ap­proach her. He prowled be­hind an arm­chair, his filthy curved nails clutch­ing its back.

“Dra­co, move this scum out­side,” said Bel­la­trix, in­di­cat­ing the un­con­scious men. “If you haven’t got the guts to fin­ish them, then leave them in the court­yard for me.”

“Don’t you dare speak to Dra­co like –“ said Nar­cis­sa fu­ri­ous­ly, but Bel­la­trix screamed.

“Be qui­et! The sit­ua­tion is graver than you can pos­si­bly imag­ine, Cis­sy! We have a very se­ri­ous prob­lem!”

She stood, pant­ing slight­ly, look­ing down at the sword, ex­am­in­ing its hilt. Then she turned to look at the silent pris­on­ers.

“If it is in­deed Pot­ter, he must not be harmed,” she mut­tered, more to her­self than to the oth­ers. “The Dark Lord wish­es to dis­pose of Pot­ter him­self. . . . But if he finds out . . . I must . . . I must know. . . .”

She turned back to her sis­ter again.

“The pris­on­ers must be placed in the cel­lar, while I think what to do!” “This is my house, Bel­la, you don’t give or­ders in my –“

“Do it! You have no idea of the dan­ger we’re in!” shrieked Bel­la­trix. She looked fright­en­ing, mad; a thin stream of fire is­sued from her wand and burned a hole in the car­pet.

Nar­cis­sa hes­itat­ed for a mo­ment, then ad­dressed the were­wolf.

“Take these pris­on­ers down to the cel­lar, Grey­back.”

“Wait,” said Bel­la­trix sharply. “All ex­cept. . . . ex­cept for the Mud­blood.” Grey­back gave a grunt of plea­sure.

“No!” shout­ed Ron. “You can have me, keep me!” Bel­la­trix hit him across the face: the blow echoed around the room.

“If she dies un­der ques­tion­ing, I’ll take you next,” she said. “Blood traitor is next to Mud­blood in my book. Take them down­stairs, Grey­back, and make sure they are se­cure, but do noth­ing more to them – yet.”

She threw Grey­back’s wand back to him, then took a short sil­ver knife from un­der her robes. She cut Hermione free from the oth­er pris­on­ers, then dragged her by the hair in­to the mid­dle of the room, while Grey­back forced the rest of them to shuf­fle across to an­oth­er door, in­to a dark pas­sage­way, his wand held out in front of him, pro­ject­ing an in­vis­ible and ir­re­sistible force.

“Reck­on she’ll let me have a bit of the girl when she’s fin­ished with her?” Grey­back crooned as he forced them along the cor­ri­dor. “I’d say I’ll get a bite or two, wouldn’t you, gin­ger?”

Har­ry could feel Ron shak­ing. They were forced down a steep flight of stairs, still tied back-​to-​back and in dan­ger of slip­ping and break­ing their necks at any mo­ment. At the bot­tom was a heavy door. Grey­back un­locked it with a tap of his wand, then forced them in­to a dank and musty room and left them in to­tal dark­ness. The echo­ing bang of the slammed cel­lar door had not died away be­fore there was a ter­ri­ble, drawn out scream from di­rect­ly above them.

“HERMIONE!” Ron bel­lowed, and he start­ed to writhe and strug­gle against the ropes ty­ing them to­geth­er, so that Har­ry stag­gered. “HERMIONE!”

“Be qui­et!” Har­ry said. “Shut up. Ron, we need to work out a way –“

“HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”

“We need a plan, stop yelling – we need to get these ropes off –“

“Har­ry?” came a whis­per through the dark­ness. “Ron? Is that you?”

Ron stopped shout­ing. There was a sound of move­ment close by them, then Har­ry saw a shad­ow mov­ing clos­er.

“Har­ry? Ron?”

“Lu­na?”

“Yes, it’s me! Oh no, I didn’t want you to be caught!”

“Lu­na, can you help us get these ropes off?” said Har­ry.

“Oh yes, I ex­pect so. . . . There’s an old nail we use if we need to break any­thing. . . . Just a mo­ment . . .”

Hermione screamed again from over­head, and they could hear Bel­la­trix scream­ing too, but her words were in­audi­ble, for Ron shout­ed again, “HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”

“Mr. Ol­li­van­der?” Har­ry could hear Lu­na say­ing. “Mr. Ol­li­van­der, have you got the nail? If you just move over a lit­tle bit . . . I think it was be­side the wa­ter jug.”

She was back with­in sec­onds.

“You’ll need to stay still,” she said.

Har­ry could feel her dig­ging at the rope’s tough fibers to work the knots free. From up­stairs they heard Bel­la­trix’s voice.

“I’m go­ing to ask you again! Where did you get this sword? Where?”

“We found it – we found it – PLEASE!” Hermione screamed again; Ron strug­gled hard­er than ev­er, and the rusty nail slipped on­to Har­ry’s wrist.

“Ron, please stay still!” Lu­na whis­pered. “I can’t see what I’m do­ing –“

“My pock­et!” said Ron, “In my pock­et, there’s a De­lu­mi­na­tor, and it’s full of light!”

A few sec­onds lat­er, there was a click, and the lu­mi­nes­cent spheres the De­lu­mi­na­tor had sucked from the lamps in the tent flew in­to the cel­lar: Un­able to re­join their sources, they sim­ply hung there, like tiny suns, flood­ing the un­der­ground room with light. Har­ry saw Lu­na, all eyes in her white face, and the mo­tion­less fig­ure of Ol­li­van­der the wand­mak­er, curled up on the floor in the cor­ner. Cran­ing around, he caught sight of their fel­low pris­on­ers: Dean and Griphook the gob­lin, who seemed bare­ly con­scious, kept stand­ing by the ropes that bound him to the hu­mans.

“Oh, that’s much eas­ier, thanks, Ron,” said Lu­na, and she be­gan hack­ing at their bind­ings again. “Hel­lo, Dean!”

From above came Bel­la­trix’s voice.

“You’re ly­ing, filthy Mud­blood, and I know it! You have been in­side my vault at Gringotts! Tell the truth, tell the truth!”

An­oth­er ter­ri­ble scream–

“HERMIONE!”

“What else did you take? What else have you got? Tel me the truth or, I swear, I shall run you through with this knife!”

“There!”

Har­ry felt the ropes fall away and turned, rub­bing his wrists, to see Ron run­ning around the cel­lar, look­ing up at the low ceil­ing, search­ing for a trap­door. Dean, his face bruised and bloody, said “Thanks” to Lu­na and stood there, shiv­er­ing, but Griphook sank on­to the cel­lar floor, look­ing grog­gy and dis­ori­ent­ed, many welts across his swarthy face.

Ron was now try­ing to Dis­ap­pa­rate with­out a wand.

“There’s no way out, Ron,” said Lu­na, watch­ing his fruit­less ef­forts. “The cel­lar is com­plete­ly es­cape-​proof. I tried, at first. Mr. Ol­li­van­der has been here for a long time, he’s tried ev­ery­thing.”

Hermione was scream­ing again: The sound went through Har­ry like phys­ical pain. Bare­ly con­scious of the fierce prick­ling of his scar, he too start­ed to run around the cel­lar, feel­ing the walls for he hard­ly knew what, know­ing in his heart that it was use­less.

“What else did you take, what else? AN­SWER ME! CRU­CIO!”

Hermione’s screams echoed off the walls up­stairs, Ron was half sob­bing as he pound­ed the walls with his fists, and Har­ry in ut­ter des­per­ation seized Ha­grid’s pouch from around his neck and groped in­side it: He pulled out Dum­ble­dore’s Snitch and shook it, hop­ing for he did not know what – noth­ing hap­pened – he waved the bro­ken halves of the phoenix wand, but they were life­less – the mir­ror frag­ment fell sparkling to the floor, and he saw a gleam of bright­est blue –

Dum­ble­dore’s eye was gaz­ing at him out of the mir­ror.

“Help us!” he yelled at it in mad des­per­ation. “We’re in the cel­lar of Mal­foy Manor, help us!”

The eye blinked and was gone.

Har­ry was not even sure that it had re­al­ly been there. He tilt­ed the shard of mir­ror this way and that, and saw noth­ing re­flect­ed there but the walls and ceil­ing of their prison, and up­stairs Hermione was scream­ing worse than ev­er, and next to him Ron was bel­low­ing, “HERMIONE! HERMIONE!”

“How did you get in­to my vault?” they heard Bel­la­trix scream. “Did that dirty lit­tle gob­lin in the cel­lar help you?”

“We on­ly met him tonight!” Hermione sobbed. “We’ve nev­er been in­side your vault. . . . It isn’t the re­al sword! It’s a copy, just a copy!”

“A copy?” screeched Bel­la­trix. “Oh, a like­ly sto­ry!”

“But we can find out eas­ily!” came Lu­cius’s voice. “Dra­co, fetch the gob­lin, he can tell us whether the sword is re­al or not!”

Har­ry dashed across the cel­lar to where Griphook was hud­dled on the floor.

“Griphook,” he whis­pered in­to the gob­lin’s point­ed ear, “you must tell them that sword’s a fake, they mustn’t know it’s the re­al one, Griphook, please –“

He could hear some­one scut­tling own the cel­lar steps; next mo­ment, Dra­co’s shak­ing voice spoke from be­hind the door.

“Stand back. Line up against the back wall. Don’t try any­thing, or I’ll kill you!”

They did as they were bid­den; as the lock turned, Ron clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor and the lights whisked back in­to his pock­et, restor­ing the cel­lar’s dark­ness. The door flew open; Mal­foy marched in­side, wand held out in front of him, pale and de­ter­mined. He seized the lit­tle gob­lin by the arm and backed out again, drag­ging Griphook with him. The door slammed shut and at the same mo­ment a loud crack echoed in­side the cel­lar.

Ron clicked the De­lu­mi­na­tor. Three balls of light flew back in­to the air from his pock­et, re­veal­ing Dob­by the house-​elf, who had just Ap­pa­rat­ed in­to their midst.

“DOB – !”

Har­ry hit Ron on the arm to stop him shout­ing, and Ron looked ter­ri­fied at his mis­take. Foot­steps crossed the ceil­ing over­head: Dra­co march­ing Griphook to Bel­la­trix.

Dob­by’s enor­mous, ten­nis-​ball shaped eyes were wide; he was trem­bling from his feet to the tips of his ears. He was back in the home of his old mas­ters, and it was clear that he was pet­ri­fied.

“Har­ry Pot­ter,” he squeaked in the tini­est quiver of a voice, “Dob­by has come to res­cue you.”

“But how did you – ?”

An aw­ful scream drowned Har­ry’s words: Hermione was be­ing tor­tured again. He cut to the es­sen­tials.

“You can Dis­ap­pa­rate out of this cel­lar?” he asked Dob­by, who nod­ded, his ears flap­ping.

“And you can take hu­mans with you?”

Dob­by nod­ded again.

“Right. Dob­by, I want you to grab Lu­na, Dean, and Mr. Ol­li­van­der, and take them – take them to –“

“Bill and Fleur’s,” said Ron. “Shell Cot­tage on the out­skirts of Tin­worth!”

The elf nod­ded for a third time.

“And then come back,” said Har­ry. “Can you do that, Dob­by?”

“Of course, Har­ry Pot­ter,” whis­pered the lit­tle elf. He hur­ried over to Mr. Ol­li­van­der, who ap­peared to be bare­ly con­scious. He took one of the wand­mak­er’s hands in his own, then held out the oth­er to Lu­na and Dean, nei­ther of whom moved.

“Har­ry, we want to help you!” Lu­na whis­pered.

“We can’t leave you here,” said Dean.

“Go, both of you! We’ll see you at Bill and Fleur’s.”

As Har­ry spoke, his scar burned worse than ev­er, and for a few sec­onds he looked down, not up­on the wand­mak­er, but on an­oth­er man who was just as old, just as thin, but laugh­ing scorn­ful­ly.

“Kill me, then. Volde­mort, I wel­come death! But my death will not bring you what you seek. . . . There is so much you do not un­der­stand. . .”

He felt Volde­mort’s fury, but as Hermione screamed again he shut it out, re­turn­ing to the cel­lar and the hor­ror of his own present.

“Go!” Har­ry be­seeched to Lu­na and Dean. “Go! We’ll fol­low, just go!”

They caught hold of the elf’s out­stretched fin­gers. There was an­oth­er loud crack, and Dob­by, Lu­na, Dean, and Ol­li­van­der van­ished.

“What was that?” shout­ed Lu­cius Mal­foy from over their heads. “Did you hear that? What was that noise in the cel­lar?”

Har­ry and Ron stared at each oth­er.

“Dra­co – no, call Worm­tail! Make him go and check!”

Foot­steps crossed the room over­head, then there was si­lence. Har­ry knew that the peo­ple in the draw­ing room were lis­ten­ing for more nois­es from the cel­lar.

“We’re go­ing to have to try and tack­le him,” he whis­pered to Ron. They had no choice: The mo­ment any­one en­tered the room and saw the ab­sence of three pris­on­ers, they were lost. “Leave the lights on,” Har­ry added, and as they heard some­one de­scend­ing the steps out­side the door, they backed against the wall on ei­ther side of it.

“Stand back,” came Worm­tail’s voice. “Stand away from the door. I’m com­ing in.” The door flew open. For a split sec­ond Worm­tail gazed in­to the ap­par­ent­ly emp­ty cel­lar, ablaze with light from the three minia­ture suns float­ing in midair. Then Har­ry and Ron launched them­selves up­on him. Ron seized Worm­tail’s wand arm and forced it up­wards. Har­ry slapped a hand to his mouth, muf­fling his voice. Silent­ly they strug­gled: Worm­tail’s wand emit­ted sparks; his sil­ver hand closed around Har­ry’s throat.

“What is it, Worm­tail?” called Lu­cius Mal­foy from above.

“Noth­ing!” Ron called back, in a pass­able im­ita­tion of Worm­tail’s wheezy voice. “All fine!”

Har­ry could bare­ly breathe.

“You’re go­ing to kill me?” Har­ry choked, at­tempt­ing to prise off the met­al fin­gers. “Af­ter I saved your life? You owe me, Worm­tail!”

The sil­ver fin­gers slack­ened. Har­ry had not ex­pect­ed it: He wrenched him­self free, as­ton­ished, keep­ing his hand over Worm­tail’s mouth. He saw the rat­like man’s small wa­tery eyes widen with fear and sur­prise: He seemed just as shocked as Har­ry at what his hand had done, at the tiny, mer­ci­ful im­pulse it had be­trayed, and he con­tin­ued to strug­gle more pow­er­ful­ly, as though to un­do that mo­ment of weak­ness.

“And we’ll have that,” whis­pered Ron, tug­ging Worm­tail’s wand from his oth­er hand.

Wand­less, help­less, Pet­ti­grew’s pupils di­lat­ed in ter­ror. His eyes had slid from Har­ry’s face to some­thing else. His own sil­ver fin­gers were mov­ing in­ex­orably to­ward his own throat.

“No –“

With­out paus­ing to think, Har­ry tried to drag back the hand, but there was no stop­ping it. The sil­ver tool that Volde­mort had giv­en his most cow­ard­ly ser­vant had turned up­on its dis­armed and use­less own­er; Pet­ti­grew was reap­ing his re­ward for his hes­ita­tion, his mo­ment of pity; he was be­ing stran­gled be­fore their eyes.

“No!”

Ron had re­leased Worm­tail too, and to­geth­er he and Har­ry tried to pull the crush­ing met­al fin­gers from around Worm­tail’s throat, but it was no use. Pet­ti­grew was turn­ing blue.

“Re­lashio!” said Ron, point­ing the wand at the sil­ver hand, but noth­ing hap­pened; Pet­ti­grew dropped to his knees, and at the same mo­ment, Hermione gave a dread­ful scream from over­head. Worm­tail’s eyes rolled up­ward in his pur­ple face; he gave a last twitch, and was still.

Har­ry and Ron looked at each oth­er, then leav­ing Worm­tail’s body on the floor be­hind them, ran up the stairs and back in­to the shad­owy pas­sage­way lead­ing to the draw­ing room. Cau­tious­ly they crept along it un­til they reached the draw­ing room door, which was ajar. Now they had a clear view of Bel­la­trix look­ing down at Griphook, who was hold­ing Gryffind­or’s sword in his long-​fin­gered hands. Hermione was ly­ing at Bel­la­trix’s feet. She was bare­ly stir­ring.

“Well?” Bel­la­trix said to Griphook. “Is it the true sword?”

Har­ry wait­ed, hold­ing his breath, fight­ing against the prick­ling of his scar.

“No,” said Griphook. “It is a fake.”

“Are you sure?” pant­ed Bel­la­trix. “Quite sure?”

“Yes,” said the gob­lin.

Re­lief broke across her face, all ten­sion drained from it.

“Good,” she said, and with a ca­su­al flick of her wand she slashed an­oth­er deep cut in­to the gob­lin’s face, and he dropped with a yell at her feet. She kicked him aside. “And now,” she said in a voice that burst with tri­umph, “we call the Dark Lord!”

And she pushed back her sleeve and touched her fore­fin­ger to the Dark Mark.

At once, Har­ry’s scar felt as though it had split open again. His true sur­round­ings van­ished: He was Volde­mort, and the skele­tal wiz­ard be­fore him was laugh­ing tooth­less­ly at him; he was en­raged at the sum­mons he felt – he had warned them, he had told them to sum­mon him for noth­ing less than Pot­ter. If they were mis­tak­en . . .

“Kill me, then!” de­mand­ed the old man. “You will not win, you can­not win! That wand will nev­er, ev­er be yours –“

And Volde­mort’s fury broke: A burst of green light filled the prison room and the frail old body was lift­ed from its hard bed and then fell back, life­less, and Volde­mort re­turned to the win­dow, his wrath bare­ly con­trol­lable. . . . They would suf­fer his ret­ri­bu­tion if they had no good rea­son for call­ing him back. . . .

“And I think,” said Bel­la­trix’s voice, “we can dis­pose of the Mud­blood. Grey­back, take her if you want her.”

“NOOOOOOOOOOOO!”

Ron had burst in­to the draw­ing room; Bel­la­trix looked around, shocked; she turned her wand to face Ron in­stead –

“Ex­pel­liar­mus!” he roared, point­ing Worm­tail’s wand at Bel­la­trix, and hers flew in­to the air and was caught by Har­ry, who had sprint­ed af­ter Ron. Lu­cius, Nar­cis­sa, Dra­co and Grey­back wheeled about; Har­ry yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!” and Lu­cius Mal­foy col­lapsed on­to the hearth. Jets of light flew from Dra­co’s, Nar­cis­sa’s, and Grey­back’s wands; Har­ry threw him­self to the floor, rolling be­hind a so­fa to avoid them.

“STOP OR SHE DIES!

Pant­ing, Har­ry peered around the edge of the so­fa. Bel­la­trix was sup­port­ing Hermione, who seemed to be un­con­scious, and was hold­ing her short sil­ver knife to Hermione’s throat.

“Drop your wands,” she whis­pered. “Drop them, or we’ll see ex­act­ly how filthy her blood is!”

Ron stood rigid, clutch­ing Worm­tail’s wand. Har­ry straight­ened up, still hold­ing Bel­la­trix’s.

“I said, drop them!” she screeched, press­ing the blade in­to Hermione’s throat: Har­ry saw beads of blood ap­pear there.

“All right!” he shout­ed, and he dropped Bel­la­trix’s wand on­to the floor at his feet, Ron did the same with Worm­tail’s. Both raised their hands to shoul­der height.

“Good!” she leered. “Dra­co, pick them up! The Dark Lord is com­ing, Har­ry Pot­ter! Your death ap­proach­es!”

Har­ry knew it; his scar was burst­ing with the pain of it, and he could feel Volde­mort fly­ing through the sky from far away, over a dark and stormy sea, and soon he would be close enough to Ap­pa­rate to them, and Har­ry could see no way out.

“Now,” said Bel­la­trix soft­ly, as Dra­co hur­ried back to her with the wands. “Cis­sy, I think we ought to tie these lit­tle heroes up again, while Grey­back takes care of Miss Mud­blood. I am sure the Dark Lord will not be­grudge you the girl, Grey­back, af­ter what you have done tonight.”

At the last word there was a pe­cu­liar grind­ing noise from above. All of them looked up­ward in time to see the crys­tal chan­de­lier trem­ble; then, with a creak and an omi­nous jin­gling, it be­gan to fall. Bel­la­trix was di­rect­ly be­neath it; drop­ping Hermione, she threw her­self aside with a scream. The chan­de­lier crashed to the floor in an ex­plo­sion of crys­tal and chains, falling on top of Hermione and the gob­lin, who still clutched the sword of Gryffind­or. Glit­ter­ing shards of crys­tal flew in all di­rec­tions; Dra­co dou­bled over, his hands cov­er­ing his bloody face.

As Ron ran to pull Hermione out of the wreck­age, Har­ry took the chance: He leapt over an arm­chair and wrest­ed the three wands from Dra­co’s grip, point­ed all of them at Grey­back, and yelled, “Stu­pe­fy!” The were­wolf was lift­ed off his feet by the triple spell, flew up to the ceil­ing and then smashed to the ground.

As Nar­cis­sa dragged Dra­co out of the way of fur­ther harm, Bel­la­trix sprang to her feet, her hair fly­ing as she bran­dished the sil­ver knife; but Nar­cis­sa had di­rect­ed her wand at the door­way.

“Dob­by!” she screamed and even Bel­la­trix froze. “You! You dropped the chan­de­lier – ?”

The tiny elf trot­ted in­to the room, his shak­ing fin­ger point­ing at his old mis­tress.

“You must not hurt Har­ry Pot­ter,” he squeaked.

“Kill him, Cis­sy!” shrieked Bel­la­trix, but there was an­oth­er loud crack, and Nar­cis­sa’s wand too flew in­to the air and land­ed on the oth­er side of the room.

“You dirty lit­tle mon­key!” bawled Bel­la­trix. “How dare you take a witch’s wand, how dare you de­fy your mas­ters?”

“Dob­by has no mas­ter!” squealed the elf. “Dob­by is a free elf, and Dob­by has come to save Har­ry Pot­ter and his friends!”

Har­ry’s scar was blind­ing him with pain. Dim­ly he knew that they had mo­ments, sec­onds be­fore Volde­mort was with them.

“Ron, catch – and GO!” he yelled, throw­ing one of the wands to him; then he bent down to tug Griphook out from un­der the chan­de­lier. Hoist­ing the groan­ing gob­lin, who still clung to the sword, over one shoul­der, Har­ry seized Dob­by’s hand and spun on the spot to Dis­ap­pa­rate.

As he turned in­to dark­ness he caught one last view of the draw­ing room of the pale, frozen fig­ures of Nar­cis­sa and Dra­co, of the streak of red that was Ron’s hair, and a blue of fly­ing sil­ver, as Bel­la­trix’s knife flew across the room at the place where he was van­ish­ing –

Bill and Fleur’s . . . Shell Cot­tage . . . Bill and Fleur’s . . .

He had dis­ap­peared in­to the un­known; all he could do was re­peat the name of the des­ti­na­tion and hope that it would suf­fice to take him there. The pain in his fore­head pierced him, and the weight of the gob­lin bore down up­on him; he could feel the blade of Gryffind­or’s sword bump­ing against his back: Dob­by’s hand jerked in his; he won­dered whether the elf was try­ing to take charge, to pull them in the right di­rec­tion, and tried, by squeez­ing the fin­gers, to in­di­cate that that was fine with them. . . .

And then they hit sol­id earth and smelled salty air. Har­ry fell to his knees, re­lin­quished Dob­by’s hand, and at­tempt­ed to low­er Griphook gen­tly to the ground.

“Are you all right?” he said as the gob­lin stirred, but Griphook mere­ly whim­pered.

Har­ry squint­ed around through the dark­ness. There seemed to be a cot­tage a short way away un­der the wide star­ry sky, and he thought he saw move­ment out­side it.

“Dob­by, is this Shell Cot­tage?” he whis­pered, clutch­ing the two wands he had brought from the Mal­foys’, ready to fight if he need­ed to. “Have we come to the right place? Dob­by?”

He looked around. The lit­tle elf stood feet from him.

“DOB­BY!”

The elf swayed slight­ly, stars re­flect­ed in his wide, shin­ing eyes. To­geth­er, he and Har­ry looked down at the sil­ver hilt of the knife pro­trud­ing from the elf’s heav­ing chest.

“Dob­by – no – HELP!” Har­ry bel­lowed to­ward the cot­tage, to­ward the peo­ple mov­ing there. “HELP!”

He did not know or care whether they were wiz­ards or Mug­gles, friends or foes; all he cared about was that a dark stain was spread­ing across Dob­by’s front, and that he had stretched out his own arms to Har­ry with a look of sup­pli­ca­tion. Har­ry caught him and laid him side­ways on the cool grass.

“Dob­by, no, don’t die, don’t die –“

The elf’s eyes found him, and his lips trem­bled with the ef­fort to form words.

“Har­ry . . . Pot­ter . . .”

And then with a lit­tle shud­der the elf be­came quite still, and his eyes were noth­ing more than great glassy orbs, sprin­kled with light from the stars they could not see.”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR


THE WAND­MAK­ER



It was like sink­ing in­to an old night­mare; for an in­stant Har­ry knelt again be­side Dum­ble­dore’s body at the foot of the tallest tow­er at Hog­warts, but in re­al­ity he was star­ing at a tiny body curled up­on the grass, pierced by Bel­la­trix’s sil­ver knife. Har­ry’s voice was still say­ing, “Dob­by…Dob­by…” even though he knew that the elf had gone where he could not call him back.

Af­ter a minute or so he re­al­ized that they had, af­ter all, come to the right place, for here were Bill and Fleur, Dean and Lu­na, gath­er­ing around him as he knelt over the elf. “Hermione,” he said sud­den­ly. “Where is she?”

“Ron’s tak­en her in­side,” said Bill. “She’ll be all right.” Har­ry looked back down at Dob­by. He stretched out a hand and pulled the sharp blade from the elf’s body, then dragged off his own jack­et and cov­ered Dob­by in it like a blan­ket.

The sea was rush­ing against the rock some­where near­by; Har­ry lis­tened to it while the oth­ers talked, dis­cussing mat­ters in which he could take no in­ter­est, mak­ing de­ci­sions, Dean car­ried the in­jured Griphook in­to the house, Fleur hur­ry­ing with them; now Bill was re­al­ly know­ing what he was say­ing. As he did so, he gazed down at the tiny body, and his scar prick­led and burned, and in one part of his mind, viewed as if from the wrong end of a long tele­scope, he saw Volde­mort pun­ish­ing those they had left be­hind at the Mal­foy Manor. His rage was dread­ful and yet Har­ry’s grief for Dob­by seemed to di­min­ish it, so that it be­came a dis­tant storm that reached Har­ry from across a vast, silent ocean.

“I want to do it prop­er­ly,” were the first words of which Har­ry was ful­ly con­scious of speak­ing. “Not by mag­ic. Have you got a spade?” And short­ly af­ter­ward he had set to work, alone, dig­ging the grave in the place that Bill had shown him at the end of the gar­den, be­tween bush­es. He dug with a kind of fury, rel­ish­ing the man­ual work, glo­ry­ing in the non-​mag­ic of it, for ev­ery drop of his sweat and ev­ery blis­ter felt like a gift to the elf who had saved their lives.

His scar burned, but he was mas­ter of the pain, he felt it, yet was apart from it. He had learned con­trol at last, learned to shut his mind to Volde­mort, the very thing Dum­ble­dore had want­ed him to learn from Snape. Just as Volde­mort had not been able to pos­sess Har­ry while Har­ry was con­sumed with grief for Sir­ius, so his thoughts could not pen­etrate Har­ry now while he mourned Dob­by. Grief, it seemed, drove Volde­mort out…though Dum­ble­dore, of course, would have said that it was love.

On Har­ry dug, deep­er and deep­er in­to the hard, cold earth, sub­sum­ing his grief in sweat, deny­ing the pain in his scar. In the dark­ness, with noth­ing but the sound of his own breath and the rush­ing sea to keep him com­pa­ny, the things that had hap­pened at the Mal­foys’ re­turned to him, the things he had heard came back to him, and un­der­stand­ing blos­somed in the dark­ness…

The steady rhythm of his arms beat time with his thoughts. Hal­lows…Hor­crux­es…Hal­lows…Hor­crux­es…yet no longer burned with that weird, ob­ses­sive long­ing. Loss and fear had snuffed it out. He felt as though he had been slapped awake again.

Deep­er and deep­er Har­ry sank in­to the grave, and he knew where Volde­mort had been tonight, and whom he had killed in the top­most cell of Nur­men­gard, and why…

And he thought of Worm­tail, dead be­cause of one small un­con­scious im­pulse of mer­cy…Dum­ble­dore had fore­seen that…How much more had he known?

Har­ry lost track of time. He knew on­ly that the dark­ness had light­ened a few de­grees when he was re­joined by Ron and Dean. “How’s Hermione?” “Bet­ter,” said Ron. “Fleur’s look­ing af­ter her.” Har­ry had his re­tort ready for when they asked him why he had not sim­ply cre­at­ed a per­fect grave with his wand, but he did not need it. They jumped down in­to the hole he had made with spades of their own and to­geth­er they worked in si­lence un­til the hole seemed deep enough.

Har­ry wrapped the elf more snug­gly in his jack­et. Ron sat on the edge of the grave and stripped off his shoes and socks, which he placed on the elf’s bare feet. Dean pro­duced a woolen hat, which Har­ry placed care­ful­ly up­on Dob­by’s head, muf­fling his bat­like ears. “We should close his eyes.”

Har­ry had not heard the oth­ers com­ing through the dark­ness. Bill was wear­ing a trav­el­ing cloak, Fleur a large white apron, from the pock­et of which pro­trud­ed a bot­tle of what Har­ry rec­og­nized to be Skele-​Gro. Hermione was wrapped in a bor­rowed dress­ing gown, pale and un­steady on her feet; Ron put an arm around her when she reached him. Lu­na, who was hud­dled in one of Fleur’s coats, crouched down and placed her fin­gers ten­der­ly up­on each of the elf’s eye­lids, slid­ing them over his glassy stare. “There,” she said soft­ly. “Now he could be sleep­ing.”

Har­ry placed the elf in­to the grave, ar­ranged his tiny limbs so that he might have been rest­ing, then climbed out and gazed for the last time up­on the lit­tle body. He forced him­self not to break down as he re­mem­bered Dum­ble­dore’s fu­ner­al, and the rows and rows of gold­en chairs, and the Min­is­ter of Mag­ic in the front row, the recita­tion of Dum­ble­dore’s achieve­ments, the state­li­ness of the white mar­ble tomb. He felt that Dob­by de­served just as grand a fu­ner­al, and yet here the elf lay be­tween bush­es in a rough­ly dug hole. “I think we ought to say some­thing,” piped up Lu­na. “I’ll go first, shall I?”

And as ev­ery­body looked at her, she ad­dressed the dead elf at the bot­tom of the grave. “Thank you so much Dob­by for res­cu­ing me from that cel­lar. It’s so un­fair that you had to die when you were so good and brave. I’ll al­ways re­mem­ber what you did for us. I hope you’re hap­py now.”

She turned and looked ex­pect­ing­ly at Ron, who cleared his throat and said in a thick voice, “yeah…thanks Dob­by.” “Thanks,” mut­tered Dean. Har­ry swal­lowed. “Good bye Dob­by,” he said It was all he could man­age, but Lu­na had said it all for him. Bill raised his wand, and the pile of earth be­side the grave rose up in­to the air and fell neat­ly up­on it, a small, red­dish mound. “D’ya mind if I stay here a mo­ment?” He asked the oth­ers.

They mur­mured words he did not catch; he felt gen­tle pats up­on his back, and then they all traipsed back to­ward the cot­tage, leav­ing Har­ry alone be­side the elf.

He looked around: There were a num­ber of large white stones, smoothed by the sea, mark­ing the edge of the flow­er beds. He picked up one of the largest and laid it, pil­low­like, over the place where Dob­by’s head now rest­ed. He then felt in his pock­et for a wand. There were two in there. He had for­got­ten, lost track; he could not now re­mem­ber whose wands these were; he seemed to re­mem­ber wrench­ing them out of some­one’s hand. He se­lect­ed the short­er of the two, which felt friendli­er in his hand, and point­ed it at the rock.

Slow­ly, un­der his mur­mured in­struc­tion, deep cuts ap­peared up­on the rock’s sur­face. He knew that Hermione could have done it more neat­ly, and prob­ably more quick­ly, but he want­ed to mark the spot as he had want­ed to dig the grave. When Har­ry stood up again, the stone read: HERE LIES DOB­BY, A FREE ELF.

He looked at his hand­iwork for a few more sec­onds, then walked away, his scar still prick­ling a lit­tle, and his mind full of those things that had come to him in the grave, ideas that had tak­en shape in the dark­ness, ideas both fas­ci­nat­ing and ter­ri­ble.

They were all sit­ting in the liv­ing room when he en­tered the lit­tle hall, their at­ten­tion fo­cused up­on Bill, who was talk­ing. The room was light-​col­ored, pret­ty, with a small fire of drift­wood burn­ing bright­ly in the fire­place. Har­ry did not want to drop mud up­on the car­pet, so he stood in the door­way, lis­ten­ing.

“…lucky that Gin­ny’s on hol­iday. If she’d been at Hog­warts they could have tak­en her be­fore we reached her. Now we know she’s safe too.” He looked around and saw Har­ry stand­ing there. “I’ve been get­ting them all out of the Bur­row,” he ex­plained. “Moved them to Muriel’s. The Death Eaters know Ron’s with you now, they’re bound to tar­get the fam­ily –don’t apol­ogize,” he added at the sight of Har­ry’s ex­pres­sion. “It was al­ways a mat­ter of time, Dad’s been say­ing so for months. We’re the biggest blood traitor fam­ily there is.”

“How are they pro­tect­ed?” asked Har­ry. “Fi­delius Charm. Dad’s Se­cret-​Keep­er. And we’ve done it on this cot­tage too; I’m Se­cret-​Keep­er here. None of us can go to work, but that’s hard­ly the most im­por­tant thing now. Once Ol­li­van­der and Griphook are well enough, we’ll move them to Muriel’s too. There isn’t much room here, but she’s got plen­ty. Griphook’s legs are on the mend. Fleur’s giv­en him Skele-​Gro-​we could prob­ably move them in an hour or—“

“No,” Har­ry said and Bill looked star­tled. “I need both of them here. I need to talk to them. It’s im­por­tant.” He heard the au­thor­ity of his own voice, the con­vic­tion, the voice of pur­pose that had come to him as he dug Dob­by’s grave. All of their faces were turned to­ward him look­ing puz­zled.

“I’m go­ing to wash,” Har­ry told Bill look­ing down at his hands still cov­ered with mud and Dob­by’s blood. “Then I’ll need to see them, straight away.” He walked in­to the lit­tle kitchen, to the basin be­neath a win­dow over­look­ing the sea. Dawn was break­ing over the hori­zon, shell pink and faint­ly gold, as he washed, again fol­low­ing the train of thought that had come to him in the dark gar­den…

Dob­by would nev­er be able to tell them who had sent him to the cel­lar, but Har­ry knew what he had seen. A pierc­ing blue eye had looked out of the mir­ror frag­ment, and then help had come. Help will al­ways be giv­en at Hog­warts to those who ask for it.

Har­ry dried his hands, im­per­vi­ous to the beau­ty of the scene out­side the win­dow and to the mur­mur­ing of the oth­ers in the sit­ting room. He looked out over the ocean and felt clos­er, this dawn, than ev­er be­fore, clos­er to the heart of it all.

And still his scar prick­led, and he knew that Volde­mort was get­ting there too. Har­ry un­der­stood and yet did not un­der­stand. His in­stinct was telling him one thing, his brain quite an­oth­er. The Dum­ble­dore in Har­ry’s head smiled, sur­vey­ing Har­ry over the tips of his fin­gers, pressed to­geth­er as if in prayer.

You gave Ron the De­lu­mi­na­tor…You un­der­stood him…You gave him a way back…

And you un­der­stood Worm­tail too…You knew there was a bit of re­gret there, some­where…

And if you knew them…What did you know about me, Dum­ble­dore?

Am I meant to know but not to seek? Did you know how hard I’d feel that? Is that why you made it this dif­fi­cult? So I’d have time to work that out?

Har­ry stood quite still, eyes glazed, watch­ing the place where a bright gold ray of daz­zling sun was ris­ing over the hori­zon. Then he looked down at his clean hands and was mo­men­tar­ily sur­prised to see the cloth he was hold­ing in them. He set it down and re­turned to the hall, and as he did so, he felt his scar pulse an­gri­ly, and then flashed across his mind, swift as the re­flec­tion of a drag­on­fly over wa­ter, the out­line of a build­ing he knew ex­treme­ly well.

Bill and Fleur were stand­ing at the foot of the stairs.

“I need to speak to Griphook and Ol­li­van­der,” Har­ry said.

“No,” said Fleur. “You will ‘ave to wait, ‘Ar­ry. Zey are both too tired –”

“I’m sor­ry,” he said with­out heat, “but it can’t wait. I need to talk to them now. Pri­vate­ly – and sep­arate­ly. It’s ur­gent.”

“Har­ry, what the hell’s go­ing on?” asked Bill. “You turn up here with a dead house-​elf and a half-​con­scious gob­lin, Hermione looks as though she’s been tor­tured, and Ron’s just re­fused to tell me any­thing –”

“We can’t tell you what we’re do­ing,” said Har­ry flat­ly. “You’re in the Or­der, Bill, you know Dum­ble­dore left us a mis­sion. We’re not sup­posed to talk about it to any­one else.”

Fleur made an im­pa­tient noise, but Bill did not look at her; he was star­ing at Har­ry. His deeply scarred face was hard to read. Fi­nal­ly, Bill said, “All right. Who do you want to talk to first?”

Har­ry hes­itat­ed. He knew what hung on his de­ci­sion. There was hard­ly any time left; now was the mo­ment to de­cide: Hor­crux­es or Hal­lows?

“Griphook,” Har­ry said. “I’ll speak to Griphook first.”

His heart was rac­ing as if he had been sprint­ing and had just cleared an enor­mous ob­sta­cle.

“Up here, then,” said Bill, lead­ing the way.

Har­ry had walked up sev­er­al steps be­fore stop­ping and look­ing back.

“I need you two as well!” he called to Ron and Hermione, who had been skulk­ing, half con­cealed, in the door­way of the sit­ting room.

They both moved in­to the light, look­ing odd­ly re­lieved.

“How are you?” Har­ry asked Hermione. “You were amaz­ing – com­ing up with that sto­ry when she was hurt­ing you like that –”

Hermione gave a weak smile as Ron gave her a one-​armed squeeze.

“What are we do­ing now, Har­ry?” he asked.

“You’ll see. Come on.”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione fol­lowed Bill up the steep stairs on­to a small land­ing. Three doors led off it.

“In here,” said Bill, open­ing the door in­to his and Fleur’s room, it too had a view of the sea, now flecked with gold in the sun­rise. Har­ry moved to the win­dow, turned his back on the spec­tac­ular view, and wait­ed, his arms fold­ed, his scar prick­ling. Hermione took the chair be­side the dress­ing ta­ble; Ron sat on the arm.

Bill reap­peared, car­ry­ing the lit­tle gob­lin, whom he set down care­ful­ly up­on the bed. Griphook grunt­ed thanks, and Bill left, clos­ing the door up­on them all.

“I’m sor­ry to take you out of bed,” said Har­ry. “How are your legs?”

“Painful,” replied the gob­lin. “But mend­ing.”

He was still clutch­ing the sword of Gryffind­or, and wore a strange look: half tru­cu­lent, half in­trigued. Har­ry not­ed the gob­lin’s sal­low skin, his long thin fin­gers, his black eyes. Fleur had re­moved his shoes: His long feet were dirty. He was larg­er than a house-​elf, but not by much. His domed head was much big­ger than a hu­man’s.

“You prob­ably don’t re­mem­ber –” Har­ry be­gan.

“—that I was the gob­lin who showed you to your vault, the first time you ev­er vis­it­ed Gringotts?” said Griphook. “I re­mem­ber, Har­ry Pot­ter. Even amongst gob­lins, you are very fa­mous.”

Har­ry and the gob­lin looked at each oth­er, siz­ing each oth­er up. Har­ry’s scar was still prick­ling. He want­ed to get through this in­ter­view with Griphook quick­ly, and at the same time was afraid of mak­ing a false move. While he tried to de­cide on the best way to ap­proach his re­quest, the gob­lin broke the si­lence.

“You buried the elf,” he said, sound­ing un­ex­pect­ed­ly ran­corous. “I watched you from the win­dow of the bed­room next door.”

“Yes,” said Har­ry.

Griphook looked at him out of the cor­ners of his slant­ing black eyes.

“You are an un­usu­al wiz­ard, Har­ry Pot­ter.”

“In what way?” asked Har­ry, rub­bing his scar ab­sent­ly.

“You dug the grave.”

“So?”

Griphook did not an­swer. Har­ry rather thought he was be­ing sneered at for act­ing like a Mug­gle, but it did not mat­ter to him whether Griphook ap­proved of Dob­by’s grave or not. He gath­ered him­self for the at­tack.

“Griphook, I need to ask –”

“You al­so res­cued a gob­lin.”

“What?”

“You brought me here. Saved me.”

“Well, I take it you’re not sor­ry?” said Har­ry a lit­tle im­pa­tient­ly.

“No, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Griphook, and with one fin­ger he twist­ed the thin black beard up­on his chin, “but you are a very odd wiz­ard.”

“Right,” said Har­ry. “Well, I need some help, Griphook, and you can give it to me.”

The gob­lin made no sign of en­cour­age­ment, but con­tin­ued to frown at Har­ry as though he had nev­er seen any­thing like him.

“I need to break in­to a Gringotts vault.”

Har­ry had not meant to say it so bad­ly: the words were forced from him as pain shot through his light­ning scar and he saw, again, the out­line of Hog­warts. He closed his mind firm­ly. He need­ed to deal with Griphook first. Ron and Hermione were star­ing at Har­ry as though he had gone mad.

“Har­ry –” said Hermione, but she was cut off by Griphook.

“Break in­to a Gringotts vault?” re­peat­ed the gob­lin, winc­ing a lit­tle as he shift­ed his po­si­tion up­on the bed. “It is im­pos­si­ble.”

“No, it isn’t,” Ron con­tra­dict­ed him. “It’s been done.”

“Yeah,” said Har­ry. “The same day I first met you, Griphook. My birth­day, sev­en years ago.”

“The vault in ques­tion was emp­ty at the time,” snapped the gob­lin, and Har­ry un­der­stood that even though Griphook had let Gringotts, he was of­fend­ed at the idea of its de­fens­es be­ing breached. “Its pro­tec­tion was min­imal.”

“Well, the vault we need to get in­to isn’t emp­ty, and I’m guess­ing its pro­tec­tion will be pret­ty pow­er­ful,” said Har­ry. “It be­longs to the Lestranges.”

He saw Hermione and Ron look at each oth­er, as­ton­ished, but there would be time enough to ex­plain af­ter Griphook had giv­en his an­swer.

“You have no chance,” said Griphook flat­ly. “No chance at all. If you seek be­neath our floors, a trea­sure that was nev­er yours –”

“Thief, you have been warned, be­ware – yeah, I know, I re­mem­ber,” said Har­ry. “But I’m not try­ing to get my­self any trea­sure, I’m not try­ing to take any­thing for per­son­al gain. Can you be­lieve that?”

The gob­lin looked slant­wise at Har­ry, and the light­ning scar on Har­ry’s fore­head prick­led, but he ig­nored it, re­fus­ing to ac­knowl­edge its pain or its in­vi­ta­tion.

“If there was a wiz­ard of whom I would be­lieve that they did not seek per­son­al gain,” said Griphook fi­nal­ly, “it would be you, Har­ry Pot­ter. Gob­lins and elves are not used to the pro­tec­tion or the re­spect that you have shown this night. Not from wand-​car­ri­ers.”

“Wand-​car­ri­ers,” re­peat­ed Har­ry: The phrase fell odd­ly up­on his ears as his scar prick­led, as Volde­mort turned his thoughts north­ward, and as Har­ry burned to ques­tion Ol­li­van­der next door.

“The right to car­ry a wand,” said the gob­lin qui­et­ly, “has long been con­test­ed be­tween wiz­ards and gob­lins.”

“Well, gob­lins can do mag­ic with­out wands,” said Ron.

“That is im­ma­te­ri­al! Wiz­ards refuse to share the se­crets of wand-​lore with oth­er mag­ical be­ings, they de­ny us the pos­si­bil­ity of ex­tend­ing our pow­ers!”

“Well, gob­lins won’t share any of their mag­ic ei­ther,” said Ron. “You won’t tell us how to make swords and ar­mor the way you do. Gob­lins know how to work met­al in a way wiz­ards have nev­er –”

“It doesn’t mat­ter,” said Har­ry, not­ing Griphook’s ris­ing col­or. “This isn’t about wiz­ards ver­sus gob­lins or any oth­er sort of mag­ical crea­ture –”

Griphook gave a nasty laugh.

“But it is, it is pre­cise­ly that! As the Dark Lord be­comes ev­er more pow­er­ful, your race is set still more firm­ly above mine! Gringotts falls un­der Wiz­ard­ing rule, house-​elves are slaugh­tered, and who amongst the wand-​car­ri­ers protests?”

“We do!” said Hermione. She had sat up straight, her eyes bright. “We protest! And I’m hunt­ed quite as much as any gob­lin or elf, Griphook! I’m a Mud­blood!”

“Don’t call your­self –” Ron mut­tered.

“Why shouldn’t I?” said Hermione. “Mud­blood, and proud of it! I’ve got no high­er po­si­tion un­der this new or­der than you have, Griphook! It was me they chose to tor­ture, back at the Mal­foys!”

As she spoke, she pulled aside the neck of the dress­ing gown to re­veal the thin cut Bel­la­trix had made, scar­let against her throat.

“Did you know that it was Har­ry who set Dob­by free?” she asked. “Did you know that we’ve want­ed elves to be freed for years?” (Ron fid­get­ed un­com­fort­ably on the arm of Hermione’s chair.) “You can’t want You-​Know-​Who de­feat­ed more than we do, Griphook!”

The gob­lin gazed at Hermione with the same cu­ri­ousi­ty he had shown Har­ry.

“What do you seek with­in the Lestranges’ vault?” he asked abrupt­ly. “The sword that lies in­side it is a fake. This is the re­al one.” He looked from one to the oth­er of them. “I think that you al­ready know this. You asked me to lie for you back there.”

“But the fake sword isn’t the on­ly thing in that vault, is it?” asked Har­ry. “Per­haps you’ve seen oth­er things in there?”

His heart was pound­ing hard­er than ev­er. He re­dou­bled his ef­forts to ig­nore the puls­ing of his scar.

The gob­lin twist­ed his beard around his fin­ger again.

“It is against our code to speak of the se­crets of Gringotts. We are the guardians of fab­ulous trea­sures. We have a du­ty to the ob­jects placed in our care, which were, so of­ten, wrought by our fin­gers.”

The gob­lin stroked the sword, and his black eyes roved from Har­ry to Hermione to Ron and then back again.

“So young,” he said fi­nal­ly, “to be fight­ing so many.”

“Will you help us?” said Har­ry. “We haven’t got a hope of break­ing in with­out a gob­lin’s help. You’re our one chance.”

“I shall . . . think about it,” said Griphook mad­den­ing­ly.

“But –” Ron start­ed an­gri­ly; Hermione nudged him in the ribs.

“Thank you,” said Har­ry.

The gob­lin bowed his great domed head in ac­knowl­edge­ment, then flexed his short legs.

“I think,” he said, set­tling him­self os­ten­ta­tious­ly up­on Bill and Fleur’s bed, “that the Skele-​Gro has fin­ished its work. I may be able to sleep at last. For­give me. . . .”

“Yeah, of course,” said Har­ry, but be­fore leav­ing the room he leaned for­ward and took the sword of Gryffind­or from be­side the gob­lin. Griphook did not protest, but Har­ry thought he saw re­sent­ment in the gob­lin’s eyes as he closed the door up­on him.

“Lit­tle git,” whis­pered Ron. “He’s en­joy­ing keep­ing us hang­ing.”

“Har­ry,” whis­pered Hermione, pulling them both away from the door, in­to the mid­dle of the still-​dark land­ing, “are you say­ing what I think you’re say­ing? Are you say­ing there’s a Hor­crux in the Lestranges vault?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “Bel­la­trix was ter­ri­fied when she thought we’d been in there, she was be­side her­self. Why? What did she think we’d seen, what else did she think we might have tak­en? Some­thing she was pet­ri­fied You-​Know-​Who would find out about.”

“But I thought we were look­ing for places You-​Know-​Who’s been, places he’s done some­thing im­por­tant?” said Ron, look­ing baf­fled. “Was he ev­er in­side the Lestranges’ vault?”

“I don’t know whether he was ev­er in­side Gringotts,” said Har­ry. “He nev­er had gold there when he was younger, be­cause no­body left him any­thing. He would have seen the bank from the out­side, though, the first time he ev­er went to Di­agon Al­ley.”

Har­ry’s scar throbbed, but he ig­nored it; he want­ed Ron and Hermione to un­der­stand about Gringotts be­fore they spoke to Ol­li­van­der.

“I think he would have en­vied any­one who had a key to a Gringotts vault. I think he’d have seen it as a re­al sym­bol of be­long­ing to the Wiz­ard­ing world. And don’t for­get, he trust­ed Bel­la­trix and her hus­band. They were his most de­vot­ed ser­vants be­fore he fell, and they went look­ing for him af­ter he van­ished. He said it night he came back, I heard him.”

Har­ry rubbed his scar.

“I don’t think he’d have told Bel­la­trix it was a Hor­crux, though. He nev­er told Lu­cius Mal­foy the truth about the di­ary. He prob­ably told her it was a trea­sured pos­ses­sion and asked her to place it in her vault. The safest place in the world for any­thing you want to hide, Ha­grid told me. . . ex­cept for Hog­warts.”

When Har­ry had fin­ished speak­ing, Ron shook his head.

“You re­al­ly un­der­stand him.”

“Bits of him,” said Har­ry. “Bits . . . I just wish I’d un­der­stood Dum­ble­dore as much. But we’ll see. Come on – Ol­li­van­der now.”

Ron and Hermione looked be­wil­dered but very im­pressed as they fol­lowed him across the lit­tle land­ing and knocked up­on the door op­po­site Bill and Fleur’s. A weak “Come in!” an­swered them.

The wand­mak­er was ly­ing on the twin bed far­thest from the win­dow. He had been held in the cel­lar for more than a year, and tor­tured, Har­ry knew, on at least one oc­ca­sion. He was ema­ci­at­ed, the bones of his face stick­ing out sharply against the yel­low­ish skin. His great sil­ver eyes seemed vast in their sunken sock­ets. The hands that lay up­on the blan­ket could have be­longed to a skele­ton. Har­ry sat down on the emp­ty bed, be­side Ron and Hermione. The ris­ing sun was not vis­ible here. The room faced the cliff-​top gar­den and the fresh­ly dug grave.

“Mr. Ol­li­van­der, I’m sor­ry to dis­turb you,” Har­ry said.

“My dear boy,” Ol­li­van­der’s voice was fee­ble. “You res­cued us, I thought we would die in that place, I can nev­er thank you . . . nev­er thank you . . . enough.”

“We were glad to do it.”

Har­ry’s scar throbbed. He knew, he was cer­tain, that there was hard­ly any time left in which to beat Volde­mort to his goal, or else to at­tempt to thwart him. He felt a flut­ter of pan­ic . . . yet he had made his de­ci­sion when he chose to speak to Griphook first. Feign­ing a calm he did not feel, he groped in the pouch around his neck and took out the two halves of his bro­ken wand.

“Mr. Ol­li­van­der, I need some help.”

“Any­thing. Any­thing.” Said the wand­mak­er weak­ly.

“Can you mend this? Is it pos­si­ble?”

Ol­li­van­der held out a trem­bling hand, and Har­ry placed the two bare­ly con­nect­ed halves in his palm.

“Hol­ly and phoenix feath­er,” said Ol­li­van­der in a tremu­lous voice. “Eleven inch­es. Nice and sup­ple.”

“Yes,” said Har­ry. “Can you -- ?”

“No,” whis­pered Ol­li­van­der. “I am sor­ry, very sor­ry, but a wand that has suf­fered this de­gree of dam­age can­not be re­paired by any means that I know of.”

Har­ry had been braced to hear it, but it was a blow nev­er­the­less. He took the wand halves back and re­placed them in the pouch around his neck. Ol­li­van­der stared at the place where the shat­tered wand had van­ished, and did not look away un­til Har­ry had tak­en from his pock­et the two wands he had brought from the Mal­foys’.

“Can you iden­ti­fy these?” Har­ry asked.

The wand­mak­er took the first of the wands and held it close to his fad­ed eyes, rolling it be­tween his knob­ble-​knuck­led fin­gers, flex­ing it slight­ly.

“Wal­nut and drag­on heart­string,” he said. “Twelve-​and-​three-​quar­ter inch­es. Un­yield­ing. This wand be­longed to Bel­la­trix Lestrange.”

“And this one?”

Ol­li­van­der per­formed the same ex­am­ina­tion.

“Hawthorn and uni­corn hair. Ten inch­es pre­cise­ly. Rea­son­ably springy. This was the wand of Dra­co Mal­foy.”

“Was?” re­peat­ed Har­ry. “Isn’t it still his?”

“Per­haps not. If you took it –”

“—I did – ”

“—then it may be yours. Of course, the man­ner of tak­ing mat­ters. Much al­so de­pends up­on the wand it­self. In gen­er­al, how­ev­er, where a wand has been won, its al­le­giance will change.”

There was a si­lence in the room, ex­cept for the dis­tant rush­ing of the sea.

“You talk about wands like they’ve got feel­ings,” said Har­ry, “like they can think for them­selves.”

“The wand choos­es the wiz­ard,” said Ol­li­van­der. “That much has al­ways been clear to those of us who have stud­ied wand­lore.”

“A per­son can still use a wand that hasn’t cho­sen them, though?” asked Har­ry.

“Oh yes, if you are any wiz­ard at all you will be able to chan­nel your mag­ic through al­most any in­stru­ment. The best re­sults, how­ev­er, must al­ways come where there is the strongest affin­ity be­tween wiz­ard and wand. These con­nec­tions are com­plex. An ini­tial at­trac­tion, and then a mu­tu­al quest for ex­pe­ri­ence, the wand learn­ing from the wiz­ard, the wiz­ard from the wand.”

The sea gushed for­ward and back­ward; it was a mourn­ful sound. “I took this wand from Dra­co Mal­foy by force,” said Har­ry. “Can I use it safe­ly?”

“I think so. Sub­tle laws gov­ern wand own­er­ship, but the con­quered wand will usu­al­ly bend its will to its new mas­ter.”

“So I should use this one?” said Ron, pulling Worm­tail’s wand out of his pock­et and hand­ing it to Ol­li­van­der.

“Chest­nut and drag­on heart­string. Nine-​and-​a-​quar­ter inch­es. Brit­tle. I was forced to make this short­ly af­ter my kid­nap­ping, for Pe­ter Pet­ti­grew. Yes, if you won it, it is more like­ly to do your bid­ding, and do it well, than an­oth­er wand.”

“And this holds true for all wands, does it?” asked Har­ry.

“I think so,” replied Ol­li­van­der, his pro­tu­ber­ant eyes up­on Har­ry’s face. “You ask deep ques­tions, Mr. Pot­ter. Wand­lore is a com­plex and mys­te­ri­ous branch of mag­ic.”

“So, it isn’t nec­es­sary to kill the pre­vi­ous own­er to take the pos­ses­sion of a wand?” asked Har­ry.

Ol­li­van­der swal­lowed.

“Nec­es­sary? No, I should not say that it is nec­es­sary to kill.”

“There are leg­ends, though,” said Har­ry, and as his heart rate quick­ened, the pain in his scar be­came more in­tense; he was sure that Volde­mort has de­cid­ed to put his idea in­to ac­tion. “Leg­ends about a wand – or wands – that have been passed from hand to hand by mur­der.”

Ol­li­van­der turned pale. Against the snowy pil­low he was light gray, and his eyes were enor­mous, blood­shot, and bulging with what looked like fear.

“On­ly one wand, I think,” he whis­pered.

“And You-​Know-​Who is in­ter­est­ed in it, isn’t he?” asked Har­ry.

“I – how?” croaked Ol­li­van­der, and he looked ap­peal­ing­ly at Ron and Hermione for help. “How do you know this?”

“He want­ed you to tell him how to over­come the con­nec­tion be­tween our wands,” said Har­ry.

Ol­li­van­der looked ter­ri­fied.

“He tor­tured me, you must un­der­stand that! The Cru­cia­tus Curse, I – I had no choice but to tell him what I knew, what I guessed!”

“I un­der­stand,” said Har­ry. “You told him about the twin cores? You said he just had to bor­row an­oth­er wiz­ard’s wand?”

Ol­li­van­der looked hor­ri­fied, trans­fixed, by the amount that Har­ry knew. He nod­ded slow­ly.

“But it didn’t work,” Har­ry went on. “Mine still beat the bor­rowed wand. Do you know why that is?”

Ol­li­van­der shook his head slow­ly as he had just nod­ded.

“I had . . . nev­er heard of such a thing. Your wand per­formed some­thing unique that night. The con­nec­tion of the twin cores is in­cred­ibly rare, yet why your wand would have snapped the bor­rowed wand, I do not know. . . .

“We were talk­ing about the oth­er wand, the wand that changes hands by mur­der. When You-​Know-​Who re­al­ized my wand had done some­thing strange, he came back and asked about that oth­er wand, didn’t he?”

“How do you know this?”

Har­ry did not an­swer.

“Yes, he asked,” whis­pered Ol­li­van­der. “He want­ed to know ev­ery­thing I could tell him about the wand var­ious­ly known as the Death­stick, the Wand of Des­tiny, or the El­der Wand.”

Har­ry glanced side­ways at Hermione. She looked flag­ger­gast­ed.

“The Dark Lord,” said Ol­li­van­der in hushed and fright­ened tones, “had al­ways been hap­py with the wand I made him – yes and phoenix feath­er, thir­teen-​and-​a-​half inch­es. – un­til he dis­cov­ered the con­nec­tion of the twin cores. Now he seeks an­oth­er, more pow­er­ful wand, as the on­ly way to con­quer yours.”

“But he’ll know soon, if he doesn’t al­ready, that mine’s bro­ken be­yond re­pair,” said Har­ry qui­et­ly.

“No!” said Hermione, sound­ing fright­ened. “He can’t know that, Har­ry, how could he --?”

“Pri­ori In­can­tatem,” said Har­ry. “We left your wand and the black­thorn wand at the Mal­foys’, Hermione. If they ex­am­ine them prop­er­ly, make them re-​cre­ate the spells they’ve cast late­ly, they’d see that yours broke mine, they’ll see that you tried and failed to mend it, and they’ll re­al­ize that I’ve been us­ing the black­thorn one ev­er since.”

The lit­tle col­or she had re­gained since their ar­rival had drained from her face. Ron gave Har­ry a re­proach­ful look, and said, “Let’s not wor­ry about that now ---”

But Mr. Ol­li­van­der in­ter­vened.

“The Dark Lord no longer seeks the El­der Wand on­ly for your de­struc­tion, Mr. Pot­ter. He is de­ter­mined to pos­sess it be­cause he be­lieves it will make him tru­ly in­vul­ner­able.”

“And will it?”

“The own­er of the El­der Wand must al­ways fear at­tack,” said Ol­li­van­der, “but the idea of the Dark Lord in pos­ses­sion of the Death­stick is, I must ad­mit . . . formidable.”

Har­ry was sud­den­ly re­mind­ed of how un­sure, when they first met, of how much he like Ol­li­van­der. Even now, hav­ing been tor­tured and im­pris­oned by Volde­mort, the idea of the Dark Wiz­ard in pos­ses­sion of this wand seemed to en­thrall him as much as it re­pulsed him.

“You – you re­al­ly think this wand ex­ists, then, Mr. Ol­li­van­der?” asked Hermione.

“Oh yes,” said Ol­li­van­der. “Yes, it is per­fect­ly pos­si­ble to trace the wand’s course through his­to­ry. There are gaps, of, course, and long ones, where it van­ish­es from view, tem­porar­ily lost or hid­den; but al­ways it resur­faces. It has cer­tain iden­ti­fy­ing char­ac­ter­is­tics that those who are learned in wand­lore rec­og­nize. There are writ­ten ac­counts, some of them ob­scure, that I and oth­er wand­mak­ers have made it our busi­ness to study. They have the ring of au­then­tic­ity.”

“So you – you don’t think it can be a fairy tale or a myth?” Hermione asked hope­ful­ly.

“No,” said Ol­li­van­der. “Whether it needs to pass by mur­der, I do not know. Its his­to­ry is bloody, but that may be sim­ply due to the fact that it is such a de­sir­able ob­ject, and arous­es such pas­sions in wiz­ards. Im­mense­ly pow­er­ful, dan­ger­ous in the wrong hands, and an ob­ject of in­cred­ible fas­ci­na­tion to all of us who study the pow­er of wands.”

“Mr. Ol­li­van­der,” said Har­ry, “you told You-​Know-​Who that Gre­gorovitch had the El­der Wand, didn’t you?”

Ol­li­van­der turned, if pos­si­ble, even paler. He looked ghost­ly as he gulped.

“But how – how do you -- ?”

“Nev­er mind how I know it,” said Har­ry, clos­ing his eyes mo­men­tar­ily as his scar burned and he saw, for mere sec­onds, a vi­sion of the main street in Hogsmeade, still dark, be­cause it was so much far­ther north. “You told You-​Know-​Who that Gre­gorovitch had the wand?”

“It was a ru­mor,” whis­pered Ol­li­van­der. “A ru­mor, years and years ago, long be­fore you were born I be­lieve Gre­gorovitch him­self start­ed it. You can see how good it would be for busi­ness; that he was study­ing and du­pli­cat­ing the qual­ities of the El­der Wand!”

“Yes, I can see that,” said Har­ry. He stood up. “Mr. Ol­li­van­der, one last thing, and then we’ll let you get some rest. What do you know about the Death­ly Hal­lows?”

“The – the what?” asked the wand­mak­er, look­ing ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered.

“The Death­ly Hal­lows.”

“I’m afraid I don’t know what you’re talk­ing about. Is this still some­thing to do with wands?”

Har­ry looked in­to the sunken face and be­lieved that Ol­li­van­der was not act­ing. He did not know about the Hal­lows.

“Thank you,” said Har­ry. “Thank you very much. We’ll leave you to get some rest now.”

Ol­li­van­der looked strick­en.

“He was tor­tur­ing me!” he gasped. “The Cru­cia­tus Curse . . . you have no idea. . . .”

“I do,” said Har­ry, “I re­al­ly do. Please get some rest. Thank you for telling me all of this.”

He led Ron and Hermione down the stair­case. Har­ry caught glimpses of Bill, Fleur, Lu­na, and Dean sit­ting at the ta­ble in the kitchen, cups of tea in front of them. They all looked up at Har­ry as he ap­peared in the door­way, but he mere­ly nod­ded to them and con­tin­ued in­to the gar­den, Ron and Hermione be­hind him. The red­dish mound of earth that cov­ered Dob­by lay ahead, and Har­ry walked back to it, as the pain in his head built more and more pow­er­ful­ly. It was a huge ef­fort now to close down the vi­sions that were forc­ing them­selves up­on him, but he knew that he would have to re­sist on­ly a lit­tle longer. He would yield very soon, be­cause he need­ed to know that his the­ory was right. He must make on­ly one more short ef­fort, so that he could ex­plain to Ron and Hermione.

“Gre­gorovitch had the El­der Wand a long time ago,” he said, “I saw You-​Know-​Who try­ing to find him. When he tracked him down, he found that Gre­gorovitch didn’t have it any­more: It was stolen from him by Grindel­wald. How Grindel­wald found out that Gre­gorovitch had it, I don’t know – but if Gre­gorovitch was stupid enough to spread the ru­mor, it can’t have been that dif­fi­cult.”

Volde­mort was at the gates of Hog­warts; Har­ry could see him stand­ing there, and see too the lamp bob­bing in the pre-​dawn, com­ing clos­er and clos­er.

“And Grindel­wald used the El­der Wand to be­come pow­er­ful. And at the height of his pow­er, when Dum­ble­dore knew he was the on­ly one who could stop him, he du­eled Grindel­wald and beat him, and he took the El­der Wand.”

“Dum­ble­dore had the El­der Wand?” said Ron. “But then – where is it now?”

“At Hog­warts,” said Har­ry, fight­ing to re­main with them in the cliff-​top gar­den.

“But then, let’s go!” said Ron ur­gent­ly. “Har­ry, let’s go and get it be­fore he does!”

“It’s too late for that,” said Har­ry. He could not help him­self, but clutched his head, try­ing to help it re­sist. “He knows where it is. He’s there now.”

“Har­ry!” Ron said fu­ri­ous­ly. “How long have you known this – why have we been wast­ing time? Why did you talk to Griphook first? We could have gone – we could still go –”

“No,” said Har­ry, and he sank to his knees in the grass. “Hermione’s right. Dum­ble­dore didn’t want me to have it. He didn’t want me to take it. He want­ed me to get the Hor­crux­es.”

“The un­beat­able wand, Har­ry!” moaned Ron.

“I’m not sup­posed to . . . I’m sup­posed to get the Hor­crux­es. . . .”

And now ev­ery­thing was cool and dark: The sun was bare­ly vis­ible over the hori­zon as he glid­ed along­side Snape, up through the grounds to­ward the lake.

“I shall join you in the cas­tle short­ly,” he said in his high, cold voice. “Leave me now.”

Snape bowed and set off back up the path, his black cloak bil­low­ing be­hind him. Har­ry walked slow­ly, wait­ing for Snape’s fig­ure to dis­ap­pear. It would not do for Snape, or in­deed any­one else, to see where he was go­ing. But there were no lights in the cas­tle win­dows, and he could con­ceal him­self . . . and in a sec­ond he had cast up­on him­self a Dis­il­lu­sion­ment Charm that hid him even from his own eyes.

And he walked on, around the edge of the lake, tak­ing in the out­lines of the beloved cas­tle, his first king­dom, his birthright. . . .

And here it was, be­side the lake, re­flect­ed in the dark wa­ters. The white mar­ble tomb, an un­nec­es­sary blot on the fa­mil­iar land­scape. He felt again that rush of con­trolled eu­pho­ria, that heady sense of pur­pose in de­struc­tion. He raised the old yew wand: How fit­ting that this would be its last great act.

The tomb split open from head to foot. The shroud­ed fig­ure was as long as thin as it had been in life. He raised the wand again.

The wrap­pings fell open. The face was translu­cent, pale, sunken, yet al­most per­fect­ly pre­served. They had left his spec­ta­cles on the crooked nose: He felt amused de­ri­sion. Dum­ble­dore’s hands were fold­ed up­on his chest, and there it lay, clutched be­neath them, buried with him.

Had the old fool imag­ined that mar­ble or death would pro­tect the wand? Had he thought that the Dark Lord would be scared to vi­olate his tomb? The spi­der­like hand swooped and pulled the wand from Dum­ble­dore’s grasp, and as he took it, a show­er of sparks flew from its tip, sparkling over the corpse of its last own­er, ready to serve a new mas­ter at last.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE


SHELL COT­TAGE



Bill and Fleur's cot­tage stood alone on a cliff over­look­ing the sea, its walls em­bed­ded with shells and white­washed. It was a lone­ly and beau­ti­ful place. Wher­ev­er Har­ry went in­side the tiny cot­tage or its gar­den, he could hear the con­stant ebb and flow of the sea, like the breath­ing of some great, slum­ber­ing crea­ture. He spent much of the next few days mak­ing ex­cus­es to es­cape the crowd­ed cot­tage, crav­ing the cliff-​top view of open sky and wide, emp­ty sea, and the feel of cold, salty wind on his face.

The enor­mi­ty of his de­ci­sion not to race Volde­mort to the wand still scared Har­ry. He could not re­mem­ber, ev­er be­fore, choos­ing /not/ to act. He was full of doubts, doubts that Ron could not help voic­ing when­ev­er they were to­geth­er.

“What if Dum­ble­dore want­ed us to work out the sym­bol in time to get the wand?” “What if work­ing out what the sym­bol meant made you 'wor­thy' to get the Hal­lows?” “Har­ry, if that re­al­ly is the El­der Wand, how the hell are we sup­posed to fin­ish off You-​Know-​Who?”

Har­ry had no an­swers: There were mo­ments when he won­dered whether it had been out­right mad­ness not to try to pre­vent Volde­mort break­ing open the tomb. He could not even ex­plain sat­is­fac­to­ri­ly why he had de­cid­ed against it: Ev­ery time he tried to re­con­struct the in­ter­nal ar­gu­ments that had led to his de­ci­sion, they sound­ed fee­bler to him.

The odd thing was that Hermione's sup­port made him feel just as con­fused as Ron's doubts. Now forced to ac­cept that the El­der Wand was re­al, she main­tained that it was an evil ob­ject, and that the way Volde­mort had tak­en pos­ses­sion of it was re­pel­lent, not to be con­sid­ered.

“You could nev­er have done that, Har­ry,” she said again and again. “You couldn't have bro­ken in­to Dum­ble­dore's grave.”

But the idea of Dum­ble­dore's corpse fright­ened Har­ry much less than the pos­si­bil­ity that he might have mis­un­der­stood the liv­ing Dum­ble­dore's in­ten­tions. He felt that he was still grop­ing in the dark; he had cho­sen his path but kept look­ing back, won­der­ing whether he had mis­read the signs, whether he should not have tak­en the oth­er way. From time to time, anger at Dum­ble­dore crashed over him again, pow­er­ful as the waves slam­ming them­selves against the cliff be­neath the cot­tage, anger that Dum­ble­dore had not ex­plained be­fore he died.

“But /is/ he dead?” said Ron, three days af­ter they had ar­rived at the cot­tage. Har­ry had been star­ing out over the wall that sep­arat­ed the cot­tage gar­den from the cliff when Ron and Hermione had found him; he wished they had not, hav­ing no wish to join in with their ar­gu­ment.

“Yes, he is. Ron, /please” don't start that again!"

“Look at the facts, Hermione,” said Ron, speak­ing across Har­ry, who con­tin­ued to gaze at the hori­zon. “The solve doe. The sword. The eye Har­ry saw in the mir­ror --”

“Har­ry ad­mits he could have imag­ined the eye! Don't you, Har­ry?”

“I could have,” said Har­ry with­out look­ing at her.

“But you don't thing you did, do you?” asked Ron.

“No, I don't,” said Har­ry.

“There you go!” said Ron quick­ly, be­fore Hermione could car­ry on. “If it wasn't Dum­ble­dore, ex­plain how Dob­by knew we were in the cel­lar, Hermione?”

“I can't -- but can you ex­plain how Dum­ble­dore sent him to us if he's ly­ing in a tomb at Hog­warts?”

“I dun­no, it could've been his ghost!”

“Dum­ble­dore wouldn't come back as a ghost,” said Har­ry. There was lit­tle about Dum­ble­dore he was sure of now, but he knew that much. “He would have gone on.”

“What d'you mean, 'gone on'?” asked Ron, but be­fore Har­ry could say any more, a voice be­hind them said, “'Ar­ry?”

Fleur had come out of the cot­tage, her long sil­ver hair fly­ing in the breeze.

“'Ar­ry, Grip'ook would like to speak to you. 'E eez in ze small­est bed­room, 'e says 'e does not want to be over'eard.”

Her dis­like of the gob­lin send­ing her to de­liv­er mes­sages was clear; she looked ir­ri­ta­ble as she walked back around the house.

Griphook was wait­ing for them, as Fleur had said, in the tini­est of the cot­tage's three bed­rooms, in which Hermione and Lu­na slept by night. He had drawn the red cot­ton cur­tains against the bright, cloudy sky, which gave the room a fiery glow at odds with the rest of the airy, light cot­tage.

“I have reached my de­ci­sion, Har­ry Pot­ter,” said the gob­lin, who was sit­ting cross-​legged in a low chair, drum­ming its arms with his spindly fin­gers. “Though the gob­lins of Gringotts will con­sid­er it base treach­ery, I have de­cid­ed to help you --”

“That's great!” said Har­ry, re­lief surg­ing through him. “Griphook, thank you, we're re­al­ly --”

“-- in re­turn,” said the gob­lin firm­ly, “for pay­ment.”

Slight­ly tak­en aback, Har­ry hes­itat­ed.

“How much do you want? I've got gold.”

“Not gold,” said Griphook. “I have gold.”

His black eyes glit­tered; there were no whites to his eyes.

“I want the sword. The sword of Go­dric Gryffind­or.”

Har­ry's spir­its plum­met­ed.

“You can't have that,” he said. “I'm sor­ry.”

“Then,” said the gob­lin soft­ly, “we have a prob­lem.”

“We can give you some­thing else,” said Ron ea­ger­ly. “I'll bet the Lestranges have got loads of stuff, you can take your pick once we get in­to the vault.”

He had said the wrong thing. Griphook flushed an­gri­ly.

“I am not a thief, boy! I am not try­ing to pro­cure trea­sures to which I have no right!”

“The sword's ours --”

“it is not,” said the gob­lin.

“We're Gryffind­ors, and it was Go­dric Gryffind­or's --”

“And be­fore it was Gryffind­or's, whose was it?” de­mand­ed the gob­lin, sit­ting up straight.

“No one's,” said Ron. “It was made for him, wasn't it?”

“No!” cried the gob­lin, bristling with anger as he point­ed a long fin­ger at Ron. “Wiz­ard­ing ar­ro­gance again! That sword was Rag­nuk the First's, tak­en from him by Go­dric Gryffind­or! It is a _____ _________, a mas­ter­piece of gob­lin­work! It be­longs with the gobl___. The sword is the price of my hire, take it or leave it!”

Griphook glared at them. Har­ry glanced at the oth­er ____, then said, “We need to dis­cuss this, Griphook, if that's all right. Could you give us a few min­utes?”

The gob­lin nod­ded, look­ing sour.

Down­stairs in the emp­ty sit­ting room, Har­ry walked to the fire­place, brow fur­rowed, try­ing to think what to do. Be­hind him, Ron said, “He's hav­ing a laugh. We can't let him have that sword.”

“It is true?” Har­ry asked Hermione. “Was the sword stolen by Gryffind­or?”

“I don't know,” she said hope­less­ly. “Wiz­ard­ing his­to­ry of­ten skates over what the wiz­ards have done to oth­er mag­ical races, but there's no ac­count that I know of that says Gryffind­or stole the sword.”

“It'll be one of those gob­lin sto­ries,” said Ron, “about how the wiz­ards are al­ways try­ing to get one over on them. I sup­pose we should think our­selves lucky he hasn't asked for one of our wands.”

“Gob­lins have got good rea­son to dis­like wiz­ards, Ron.” said Hermione. “They've been treat­ed bru­tal­ly in the past.”

“Gob­lins aren't ex­act­ly fluffy lit­tle bun­nies, though, are they?” said Ron. “They've killed plen­ty of us. They've fought dirty too.”

“But ar­gu­ing with Griphook about whose race is most un­der­hand­ed and vi­olent isn't go­ing to make him more like­ly to help us, is it?”

There was a pause while they tried to think of a way around the prob­lem. Har­ry looked out of the win­dow at Dob­by's grave. Lu­na was ar­rang­ing sea laven­der in a jam jar be­side the head­stone.

“Okay,” said Ron, and Har­ry turned back to face him, “how's this? We tell Griphook we need the sword un­til we get in­side the _____ and then he can have it. There's a fake in these, isn't there? We switch them, and give him the fake.”

“Ron, he'd know the dif­fer­ence bet­ter than we would!” said Hermione. “He's the on­ly one who re­al­ized there had been a swap!”

“Yeah, but we could _ca_per be­fore he re­al­izes --”

He quailed be­neath the look Hermione was giv­ing him.

“That,” she said qui­et­ly, “is de­spi­ca­ble. Ask for his help, then dou­ble-​cross him? And you won­der why gob­lins don't like wiz­ards, Ron?”

Ron's ears had turned red.

“All right, all right! It was the on­ly thing I could think of! What's your so­lu­tion, then?”

“We need to of­fer him some­thing else, some­thing just as valu­able.”

“Bril­liant, I'll go and get one of our an­cient gob­lin-​made swords and you can gift wrap it.”

Si­lence fell be­tween them again. Har­ry was sure that the gob­lin would ac­cept noth­ing but the sword, even if they had some­thing as valu­able to of­fer him. Yet the sword was their one, in­dis­pens­able weapon against the Hor­crux­es.

He closed his eyes for a mo­ment or two and lis­tened to the rush of the sea. The idea that Gryffind­or might have stolen the sword was un­pleas­ant to him: He had al­ways been proud to be a Gryffind­or; Gryffind­or had been the cham­pi­on of Mug­gle-​borns, the wiz­ard who had clashed with the pure­blood-​lov­ing Slytherin....

“Maybe he's ly­ing,” Har­ry said, open­ing his eyes again. “Griphook. Maybe Gryffind­or didn't take the sword. How do we know the gob­lin ver­sion of his­to­ry's right?”

“Does it make a dif­fer­ence?” asked Hermione.

“Changes how I feel about it,” said Har­ry.

He took a deep breath.

“We'll tell him he can have the sword af­ter he's helped us get in­to that vault -- but we'll be care­ful to avoid telling him ex­act­ly /when/ he can have it.”

A grin spread slow­ly across Ron's face. Hermione, how­ev­er, looked alarmed.

“Har­ry, we can't --”

“He can have it,” Har­ry went on, “af­ter we've used it on all of the Hor­crux­es. I'll make sure he gets it then. I'll keep my word.”

“But that could be years!” said Hermione.

“I know that, but /he/ needn't. I won't be ly­ing... re­al­ly.”

Har­ry met her eyes with a mix­ture of de­fi­ance and shame. He re­mem­bered the words that had been en­graved over the gate­way to Nur­men­gard: FOR THE GREATER GOOD. He pushed the idea away. What choice did they have?

“I don't like it,” said Hermione.

“Nor do I, much,” Har­ry ad­mit­ted.

“Well, I think it's ge­nius,” said Ron, stand­ing up again. “Let's go and tell him.”

Back in the small­est bed­room, Har­ry made the of­fer, care­ful to phrase it so as not to give any def­inite time for the han­dover of the sword. Hermione frowned at the floor while he was speak­ing; he felt ir­ri­tat­ed at her, afraid that she might give the game away. How­ev­er, Griphook had eyes for no­body but Har­ry.

“I have your word, Har­ry Pot­ter, that you will give me the sword of Gryffind­or if I help you?”

“Yes,” said Har­ry.

“Then shake,” said the gob­lin, hold­ing out his hand.

Har­ry took it and shook. He won­dered whether those black eyes saw any mis­giv­ings in his own. Then Griphook re­lin­quished him, clapped his hands to­geth­er, and said, “So. We be­gin!”

It was like plan­ning to break in­to the Min­istry all over again. They set­tled to work in the small­est bed­room, which was kept, ac­cord­ing to Griphook's pref­er­ence, in semi­dark­ness.

“I have vis­it­ed the Lestranges' vault on­ly once,” Griphook told them, “on the oc­ca­sion I was told to place in­side it the false sword. It is one of the most an­cient cham­bers. The old­est Wiz­ard­ing fam­ilies store their trea­sures at the deep­est lev­el, where the vaults are largest and best pro­tect­ed....”

They re­mained shut in the cup­board­like room for hours at a time. Slow­ly the days stretched in­to weeks. There was prob­lem af­ter prob­lem to over­come, not least of which was that their store of Polyjuice Po­tion was great­ly de­plet­ed.

“There's re­al­ly on­ly enough left for one of us,” said Hermione, tilt­ing the thick mud­like po­tion against the lamp­light.

“That'll be enough,” said Har­ry, who was ex­am­in­ing Griphook's hand-​drawn map of the deep­est pas­sage­ways.

The oth­er in­hab­itants of Shell Cot­tage could hard­ly fail to no­tice that some­thing was go­ing on now that Har­ry, Ron and Hermione on­ly emerged for meal­times. No­body asked ques­tions, al­though Har­ry of­ten felt Bill's eyes on the three of them at the ta­ble, thought­ful, con­cerned.

The longer they spent to­geth­er, the more Har­ry re­al­ized that he did not much like the gob­lin. Griphook was un­ex­pect­ed­ly blood­thirsty, laughed at the idea of pain in less­er crea­tures and seemed to rel­ish the pos­si­bil­ity that they might have to hurt oth­er wiz­ards to reach the Lestranges' vault. Har­ry could tell that his dis­taste was shared by the oth­er two, but they did not dis­cuss it. They need­ed Griphook.

The gob­lin ate on­ly grudg­ing­ly with the rest of them. Even af­ter his legs had mend­ed, he con­tin­ued to re­quest trays of food in his room, like the still-​frail Ol­li­van­der, un­til Bill (fol­low­ing an an­gry out­burst from Fleur) went up­stairs to tell him that the ar­range­ment could not con­tin­ue. There­after Griphook joined them at the over­crowd­ed ta­ble, al­though he re­fused to eat the same food, in­sist­ing, in­stead, on lumps of raw meat, roots, and var­ious fun­gi.

Har­ry felt re­spon­si­ble: It was, af­ter all, he who had in­sist­ed that the gob­lin re­main at Shell Cot­tage so that he could ques­tion him; his fault that the whole Weasley fam­ily had been driv­en in­to hid­ing, that Bill, Fred, George, and Mr. Weasley could no longer work.

“I'm sor­ry,” he told Fleur, one blus­tery April evening as he helped her pre­pare din­ner. “I nev­er meant you to have to deal with all of this.”

She had just set some knives to work, chip­ping up steaks for Griphook and Bill, who had pre­ferred his meat bloody ev­er since he had been at­tacked by Grey­back. While the knives sliced be­hind her, her some­what ir­ri­ta­ble ex­pres­sion soft­ened.

“'Ar­ry, you saved my sis­ter's life, I do not for­get.”

This was not, strict­ly speak­ing, true, but Har­ry de­cid­ed against re­mind­ing her that Gabrielle had nev­er been in re­al dan­ger.

“Any­way,” Fleur went on, point­ing her want at a pot of sauce on the stove, which be­gan to bub­ble at once, “Mr. Ol­li­van­der leaves for Muriel's zis evening. Zat will make zings eas­ier. Ze gob­lin,” she scowled a lit­tle at the men­tion of him, “can move down­stairs, and you, Ron, and Dean can take zat room.”

“We don't mind sleep­ing in the liv­ing room,” said Har­ry, who knew that Griphook would thing poor­ly of hav­ing to sleep on the so­fa; keep­ing Griphook hap­py was es­sen­tial to their plans. “Don't wor­ry about us.” And when she tried to protest he went on, “We'll be off your hands soon too, Ron, Hermione, and I. We won't need to be here much longer.”

“But, what do you mean?” she said, frown­ing at him, her wand point­ing at the casse­role dish now sus­pend­ed in midair. “Of course you must not leave, you are safe 'ere!”

She looked rather like Mrs. Weasley as she said it, and he was glad that the back door opened at that mo­ment. Lu­na and Dean en­tered, their hair damp from the rain out­side and their arms full of drift­wood.

“... and tiny lit­tle ears,” Lu­na was say­ing, “a bit like hip­po's, Dad­dy says, on­ly pur­ple and hairy. And if you want to call them, you have to hum; they pre­fer a waltz, noth­ing too fast....”

Look­ing un­com­fort­able, Dean shrugged at Har­ry as he passed, fol­low­ing Lu­na in­to the com­bined din­ing and sit­ting room where Ron and Hermione were lay­ing the din­ner ta­ble. Seiz­ing the chance to es­cape Fleur's ques­tions, Har­ry grabbed two jugs of pump­kin juice and fol­lowed them.

“... and if you ev­er come to our house I'll be able to show you the horn, Dad­dy wrote to me about it but I haven't seen it yet, be­cause the Death Eaters took me from the Hog­warts Ex­press and I nev­er got home for Christ­mas,” Lu­na was say­ing, as she and Dean re­lit the fire.

“Lu­na, we told you,” Hermione called over to her. “That horn ex­plod­ed. It came from an Erumpent, not a Crum­ple-​Horned Snorkack --”

“No, it was def­inite­ly a Snorkack horn,” said Lu­na serene­ly, “Dad­dy told me. It will prob­ably have re-​formed by now, they mend them­selves, you know.”

Hermione shook her head and con­tin­ued lay­ing down forks as Bill ap­peared, lead­ing Mr. Ol­li­van­der down the stairs. The wand­mak­er still looked ex­cep­tion­al­ly frail, and he clung to Bill's arm as the lat­ter sup­port­ed him, car­ry­ing a large suit­case.

“I'm go­ing to miss you, Mr. Ol­li­van­der,” said Lu­na, ap­proach­ing the old man.

“And I you, my dear,” said Ol­li­van­der, pat­ting her on the shoul­der.

“You were an in­ex­press­ible com­fort to me in that ter­ri­ble place.”

“So, au revoir, Mr. Ol­li­van­der,” said Fleur, kiss­ing him on both cheeks. “And I won­der whezzer you could oblige me by de­liv­er­ing a pack­age to Bill's Aun­tie Murie!? I nev­er re­turned 'er tiara.”

“It will be an hon­or,” said Ol­li­van­der with a lit­tle bow, “the very least I can do in re­turn for your gen­er­ous hos­pi­tal­ity.”

Fleur drew out a worn vel­vet case, which she opened to show the wand­mak­er. The tiara sat glit­ter­ing and twin­kling in the light from the low-​hang­ing lamp.

“Moon­stones and di­amonds,” said Griphook, who had si­dled in­to the room with­out Har­ry notic­ing. “Made by gob­lins, I think?”

“And paid for by wiz­ards,” said Bill qui­et­ly, and the gob­lin shot him a look that was both furtive and chal­leng­ing.

A strong wind gust­ed against the cot­tage win­dows as Bill and Ol­li­van­der set off in­to the night. The rest of them squeezed in around the ta­ble; el­bow to el­bow and with bare­ly enough room to move, they start­ed to eat. The fire crack­led and popped in the grate be­side them. Fleur, Har­ry no­ticed, was mere­ly play­ing with her food; she glanced at the win­dow ev­ery few min­utes; how­ev­er, Bill re­turned be­fore they had fin­ished their first course, his long hair tan­gled by the wind.

“Ev­ery­thing's fine,” he told Fleur. “Ol­li­van­der set­tled in, Mum and Dad say hel­lo. Gin­ny sends you all her love, Fred and George are driv­ing Muriel up the wall, they're still op­er­at­ing an Owl-​Or­der busi­ness out of her back room. It cheered her up to have her tiara back, though. She said she thought we'd stolen it.”

“Ah, she eez char­mant, your aunt,” said Fleur cross­ly, wav­ing her wand and caus­ing the dirty plates to rise and form a stack in midair. She caught them and marched out of the room.

“Dad­dy's made a tiara,” piped up Lu­na, “Well, more of a crown, re­al­ly.”

Ron caught Har­ry's eye and grinned; Har­ry knew that he was re­mem­ber­ing the lu­di­crous head­dress they had seen on their vis­it to Xenophilius.

“Yes, he's try­ing to re-​cre­ate the lost di­adem of Raven­claw. He thinks he's iden­ti­fied most of the main el­ements now. Adding the bil­ly­wig wings re­al­ly made a dif­fer­ence --”

There was a bang on the front door. Ev­ery­one's head turned to­ward it. Fleur came run­ning out of the kitchen, look­ing fright­ened; Bill jumped to his feed, his wand point­ing at the door; Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione did the same. Silent­ly Griphook slipped be­neath the ta­ble, out of sight.

“Who is it?” Bill called.

“It is I, Re­mus John Lupin!” called a voice over the howl­ing wind. Har­ry ex­pe­ri­enced a thrill of fear; what had hap­pened? “I am a were­wolf, mar­ried to Nymphado­ra Tonks, and you, the Se­cret-​Keep­er of Shell Cot­tage, told me the ad­dress and bade me come in an emer­gen­cy!”

“Lupin,” mut­tered Bill, and he ran to the door and wrenched it open.

Lupin fell over the thresh­old. He was white-​faced, wrapped in a trav­el­ing cloak, his gray­ing hair windswept. He straight­ened up, looked around the room, mak­ing sure of who was there, then cried aloud, “It's a boy! We've named him Ted, af­ter Do­ra's fa­ther!”

Hermione shrieked.

“Wha --? Tonks -- Tonks has had the ba­by?”

“Yes, yes, she's had the ba­by!” shout­ed Lupin. All around the ta­ble came cries of de­light, sighs of re­lief: Hermione and Fleur both squealed, “Con­grat­ula­tions!” and Ron said, “Blimey, a ba­by!” as if he had nev­er heard of such a thing be­fore.

“Yes -- yes -- a boy,” said Lupin again, who seemed dazed by his own hap­pi­ness. He strode around the ta­ble and hugged Har­ry; the scene in the base­ment of Grim­mauld Place might nev­er have hap­pened.

“You'll be god­fa­ther?” he said as he re­leased Har­ry.

“M-​me?” stam­mered Har­ry.

“You, yes, of course -- Do­ra quite agrees, no one bet­ter --”

“I -- yeah -- blimey --”

Har­ry felt over­whelmed, as­ton­ished, de­light­ed; now Bill was hur­ry­ing to fetch wine, and Fleur was per­suad­ing Lupin to join them for a drink.

“I can't stay long, I must get back,” said Lupin, beam­ing around at them all: He looked years younger than Har­ry had ev­er seen him. “Thank you, thank you, Bill”

Bill had soon filled all of their gob­lets, they stood and raised them high in a toast.

“To Ted­dy Re­mus Lupin,” said Lupin, “a great wiz­ard in the mak­ing!”

“'Oo does 'e look like?” Fleur in­quired.

“I think he looks like Do­ra, but she thinks he is like me. Not much hair. It looked black when he was born, but I swear it's turned gin­ger in the hour since. Prob­ably blond by the time I get back. An­drome­da says Tonks's hair start­ed chang­ing col­or the day that she was born.” He drained his gob­let. “Oh, go on then, just one more,” he added, beam­ing, as Bill made to fill it again.

The wind buf­fet­ed the lit­tle cot­tage and the fire leapt and crack­led, and Bill was soon open­ing an­oth­er bot­tle of wine. Lupin's news seemed to have tak­en them out of them­selves, re­moved them for a while from their state of siege: Tid­ings of new life were ex­hil­arat­ing. On­ly the gob­lin seemed un­touched by the sud­den­ly fes­tive at­mo­sphere, and af­ter a while he slunk back to the bed­room he now oc­cu­pied alone. Har­ry thought he was the on­ly one who had no­ticed this, un­til he saw Bill's eyes fol­low­ing the gob­lin up the stairs.

“No... no... I re­al­ly must get back,” said Lupin at last, de­clin­ing yet an­oth­er gob­let of wine. He got to his feet and pulled his trav­el­ing cloak back around him­self.

“Good-​bye, good-​bye -- I'll try and bring some pic­tures in a few day's time -- they'll all be so glad to know that I've seen you --”

He fas­tened his cloak and made his farewells, hug­ging the wom­en and grasp­ing hands with the men, then, still beam­ing, re­turned in­to the wild night.

“God­fa­ther, Har­ry!” said Bill as they walked in­to the kitchen to­geth­er, help­ing clear the ta­ble. “A re­al hon­or! Con­grat­ula­tions!”

As Har­ry set down the emp­ty gob­lets he was car­ry­ing, Bill pulled the door be­hind him closed, shut­ting out the still-​vol­uble voic­es of the oth­ers, who were con­tin­uing to cel­ebrate even in Lupin's ab­sence.

“I want­ed a pri­vate word, ac­tu­al­ly, Har­ry. It hasn't been easy to get an op­por­tu­ni­ty with the cot­tage this full of peo­ple.”

Bill hes­itat­ed.

“Har­ry, you're plan­ning some­thing with Griphook.”

It was a state­ment, not a ques­tion, and Har­ry did not both­er to de­ny it. He mere­ly looked at Bill, wait­ing.

“I know gob­lins,” said Bill. “I've worked for Gringotts ev­er since I left Hog­warts. As far as there can be friend­ship be­tween wiz­ards and gob­lins, I have gob­lin friends -- or, at least, gob­lins I know well, and like.” Again, Bill hes­itat­ed.

“Har­ry, what do you want from Griphook, and what have you promised him in re­turn?”

“I can't tell you that,” said Har­ry. “Sor­ry, Bill.”

The kitchen door opened be­hind them; Fleur was try­ing to bring through more emp­ty gob­lets.

“Wait,” Bill told her, “Just a mo­ment.”

She backed out and he closed the door again.

“Then I have to say this,” Bill went on. “If you have struck any kind of bar­gain with Griphook, and most par­tic­ular­ly if that bar­gain in­volves trea­sure, you must be ex­cep­tion­al­ly care­ful. Gob­lin no­tions of own­er­ship, pay­ment, and re­pay­ment are not the same as hu­man ones.”

Har­ry felt a slight squirm of dis­com­fort, as though a small snake had stirred in­side him.

“What do you mean?” he asked.

“We are talk­ing about a dif­fer­ent breed of be­ing,” said Bill. “Deal­ings be­tween wiz­ards and gob­lins have been fraught for cen­turies -- but you'll know all that from His­to­ry of Mag­ic. There has been fault on both sides, I would nev­er claim that wiz­ards have been in­no­cent. How­ev­er, there is a be­lief among some gob­lins, and those at Gringotts are per­haps most prone to it, that wiz­ards can­not be trust­ed in mat­ters of gold and trea­sure, that they have no re­spect for gob­lin own­er­ship.”

“I re­spect --” Har­ry be­gan, but Bill shook his head.

“You don't un­der­stand, Har­ry, no­body could un­der­stand un­less they have lived with gob­lins. To a gob­lin, the right­ful and true mas­ter of any ob­ject is the mak­er, not the pur­chas­er. All gob­lin made ob­jects are, in gob­lin eyes, right­ful­ly theirs.”

“But it was bought --”

“-- then they would con­sid­er it rent­ed by the one who had paid the mon­ey. They have, how­ev­er, great dif­fi­cul­ty with the idea of gob­lin-​made ob­jects pass­ing from wiz­ard to wiz­ard. You saw Griphook's face when the tiara passed un­der his eyes. He dis­ap­proves. I be­lieve he thinks, as do the fiercest of his kind, that it ought to have been re­turned to the gob­lins once the orig­inal pur­chas­er died. They con­sid­er our habit of keep­ing gob­lin-​made ob­jects, pass­ing them from wiz­ard to wiz­ard with­out fur­ther pay­ment, lit­tle more than theft.”

Har­ry had an omi­nous feel­ing now; he won­dered whether Bill guessed more than he was let­ting on.

“All I am say­ing,” said Bill, set­ting his hand on the door back in­to the sit­ting room, “is to be very care­ful what you promise gob­lins, Har­ry. It would be less dan­ger­ous to break in­to Gringotts than to re­nege on a promise to a gob­lin.”

“Right,” said Har­ry as Bill opened the door, “yeah. Thanks. I'll bear that in mind.”

As he fol­lowed Bill back to the oth­ers a wry thought came to him, born no doubt of the wine he had drunk. He seemed set on ______ to be­come just as reck­less a god­fa­ther to Ted­dy Lupin as Sir­ius Black had been to him.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX


GRINGOTTS



Their plans were made, their prepa­ra­tions com­plete; in the small­est bed­room a sin­gle long, coarse black hair (plucked from the sweater Hermione had been wear­ing at Mal­foy Manor) lay curled in a small glass phial on the man­tel­piece.

“And you'll be us­ing her ac­tu­al wand,” said Har­ry, nod­ding to­ward the wal­nut wand, “so I reck­on you'll be pret­ty con­vinc­ing.”

Hermione looked fright­ened that the wand might sting or bit her as she picked it up.

“I hate that thing,” she said in a low voice. “I re­al­ly hate it. It feels all wrong, it doesn't work prop­er­ly for me . . . It's like a bit of her.”

Har­ry could not help but re­mem­ber how Hermione has dis­missed his loathing of the black­thorn wand, in­sist­ing that he was imag­in­ing things when it did not work as well as his own, telling him to sim­ply prac­tice. He chose not to re­peat her own ad­vice back to her, how­ev­er, the eve of their at­tempt­ed as­sault on Gringotts felt like the wrong mo­ment to an­tag­onize her.

“It'll prob­ably help you get in char­ac­ter, though,” said Ron. “think what that wand's done!”

“But that's my point!” said Hermione. “This is the wand that tor­tured Neville's mum and dad, and who knows how many oth­er peo­ple? This is the wand that killed Sir­ius!”

Har­ry had not thought of that: He looked down at the wand and was vis­it­ed by a bru­tal urge to snap it, to slice it in half with Gryffind­or's sword, which was propped against the wall be­side him.

“I miss my wand,” Hermione said mis­er­ably. “I wish Mr. Ol­li­van­der could have made me an­oth­er one too.”

Mr. Ol­li­van­der had sent Lu­na a new wand that morn­ing. She was out on the back lawn at that mo­ment, test­ing its ca­pa­bil­ities in the late af­ter­noon sun. Dean, who had lost his wand to the Snatch­ers, was watch­ing rather gloomi­ly.

Har­ry looked down at the hawthorn wand that had once be­longed to Dra­co Mal­foy. He had been sur­prised, but pleased to dis­cov­er that it worked for him at least as well as Hermione's had done. Re­mem­ber­ing what Ol­li­van­der had told them of the se­cret work­ings of wands, Har­ry thought he knew what Hermione's prob­lem was: She had not won the wal­nut wand's al­le­giance by tak­ing it per­son­al­ly from Bel­la­trix.

The door of the bed­room opened and Griphook en­tered. Har­ry reached in­stinc­tive­ly for the hilt of the sword and drew it close to him, but re­gret­ted his ac­tion at once. He could tell that the gob­lin had no­ticed. Seek­ing to gloss over the sticky mo­ment, he said, “We've just been check­ing the last-​minute stuff, Griphook. We've told Bill and Fleur we're leav­ing to­mor­row, and we've told them not to get up to see us off.”

They had been firm on this point, be­cause Hermione would need to trans­form in Bel­la­trix be­fore they left, and the less that Bill and Fleur knew or sus­pect­ed about what they were about to do, the bet­ter. They had al­so ex­plained that they would not be re­turn­ing. As they had lost Perkin's old tent on the night that the Snatch­er's caught them, Bill had lent them an­oth­er one. It was now packed in­side the bead­ed bag, which, Har­ry was im­pressed to learn, Hermione had pro­tect­ed from the Snatch­ers by the sim­ple ex­pe­di­ent of stuff­ing it down her sock.

Though he would miss Bill, Fleur, Lu­na, and Dean, not to men­tion the home com­forts they had en­joyed over the last few weeks, Har­ry was look­ing for­ward to es­cap­ing the con­fine­ment of Shell Cot­tage. He was tired of try­ing to make sure that they were not over­heard, tired of be­ing shut in the tiny, dark bed­room. Most of all, he longed to be rid of Griphook. How­ev­er, pre­cise­ly how and when they were to part from the gob­lin with­out hand­ing over Gryffind­or's sword re­mained a ques­tion to which Har­ry had no an­swer. It had been im­pos­si­ble to de­cide how they were go­ing to do it, be­cause the gob­lin rarely left Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione alone to­geth­er for more than five min­utes at a time: “He could give my moth­er lessons,” growled Ron, as the gob­lin's long fin­gers kept ap­pear­ing around the edges of doors. With Bill's warn­ing in mind, Har­ry could not help sus­pect­ing that Griphook was on the watch for pos­si­ble skull­dug­gery. Hermione dis­ap­proved so hearti­ly of the planned dou­ble-​cross that Har­ry had giv­en up at­tempt­ing to pick her brains on how best to do it: Ron, on the rare oc­ca­sions that they had been able to snatch a few Griphook-​free mo­ments, had come up with noth­ing bet­ter than “We'll just have to wing it, mate.”

Har­ry slept bad­ly that night. Ly­ing away in the ear­ly hours, he thought back to the way he had felt the night be­fore they had in­fil­trat­ed the Min­istry of Mag­ic and re­mem­bered a de­ter­mi­na­tion, al­most an ex­cite­ment. Now he was ex­pe­ri­enc­ing jolts of anx­iety nag­ging doubts: He could not shake off the fear that it was all go­ing to go wrong. He kept telling him­self that their plan was good, that Griphook knew what they were fac­ing, that they were well-​pre­pared for all the dif­fi­cul­ties they were like­ly to en­counter, yet still he felt un­easy. Once or twice he heard Ron stir and was sure that he too was awake, but they were shar­ing the sit­ting room with Dean, so Har­ry did not speak.

It was a re­lief when six o-​clock ar­rived and they could slip out of their sleep­ing bags, dress in the semi­dark­ness, then creep out in­to the gar­den, where they were to meet Hermione and Griphook. The dawn was chilly, but there was lit­tle wind now that it was May. Har­ry looked up at the stars still glim­mer­ing pale­ly in the dark sky and lis­tened to the sea wash­ing back­ward and for­ward against the cliff: He was go­ing to miss the sound.

Small green shoots were forc­ing their way up through the red earth of Dob­by's grave now, in a year's time the mound would be cov­ered in flow­ers. The white stone that bore the elf's name had al­ready ac­quired a weath­ered look. He re­al­ized now that they could hard­ly have laid Dob­by to rest in a more beau­ti­ful place, but Har­ry ached with sad­ness to think of leav­ing him be­hind. Look­ing down on the grave, he won­dered yet again how the elf had known where to come to res­cue them. His fin­gers moved ab­sent­mind­ed­ly to the lit­tle pouch still strung around his neck, thor­ough which he could feel the jagged mir­ror frag­ment in which he had been sure he had seen Dum­ble­dore's eye. Then the sound of a door open­ing made him look around.

Bel­la­trix Lestrange was strid­ing across the lawn to­ward them, ac­com­pa­nied by Griphook. As she walked, she was tuck­ing the small, bead­ed bag in­to the in­side pock­et of an­oth­er set of the old robes they had tak­en from Grim­mauld Place . Though Har­ry knew per­fect­ly well that it was re­al­ly Hermione, he could not sup­press a shiv­er of loathing. She was taller than he was, her long black hair rip­pling down her back, her heav­ily lid­ded eyes dis­dain­ful as they rest­ed up­on him; but then she spoke, and he heard Hermione through Bel­la­trix's low voice.

“She tast­ed dis­gust­ing, worse than Gur­dy­roots! Okay, Ron, come here so I can do you . . .”

“right, but re­mem­ber, I don't like the beard too long”

“Oh, for heav­en's sake, this isn't about look­ing hand­some”

“It's not that, it gets in the way! But I liked my nose a bit short­er, try and do it the way you did last time.”

Hermione sighed and set to work, mut­ter­ing un­der her breath as she trans­formed var­ious as­pects of Ron's ap­pear­ance. He was to be giv­en a com­plete­ly fake iden­ti­ty, and they were trust­ing to the malev­olent au­ra cast by Bel­la­trix to pro­tect him. Mean­while Har­ry and Griphook were to be con­cealed un­der the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak.

“There,” said Hermione, “how does he look, Har­ry?”

It was just not pos­si­ble to dis­cern Ron un­der his dis­guise, but on­ly, Har­ry thought be­cause he knew him so well. Ron's hair was now long and wavy; he had a thick brown beard and mus­tache, no freck­les, a short, broad nose, and heavy eye­brows.

“Well, he's not my type, but he'll do,” said Har­ry. “Shall we go, then?”

All three of them glanced back at Shell Cot­tage, ly­ing dark and silent un­der the fad­ing stars, then turned and be­gan to walk to­ward the point, just be­yond the bound­ary wall, where the Fi­delius Chard stopped work­ing and they would be able to Dis­ap­pa­rate. Once past the gate, Griphook spoke.

“I should climb up now, Har­ry Pot­ter, I think?”

Har­ry bent down and the gob­lin clam­bered on­to his back, his hands linked on front of Har­ry's throat. He was not heavy, but Har­ry dis­liked the feel­ing of the gob­lin and the sur­pris­ing strength with which he clung on. Hermione pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak out of the bead­ed bag and threw it over them both.

“Per­fect,” she said, bend­ing down to check Har­ry's feet. “I can't see a thing. Let's go.”

Har­ry turned on the spot, with Griphook on his shoul­ders, con­cen­trat­ing with all his might on the Leaky Caul­dron, the inn that was the en­trance to Di­agon Al­ley. The gob­lin clung even tighter as they moved in­to the com­press­ing dark­ness, and sec­onds lat­er Har­ry's feet found pave­ment and he opened his eyes on Char­ing Cross Road . Mug­gles bus­tled past wear­ing the hang­dog ex­pres­sions of ear­ly morn­ing, quite un­con­scious of the lit­tle inn's ex­is­tence.

The bar of the Leaky Caul­dron was near­ly de­sert­ed. Ton, the stooped and tooth­less land­lord, was pol­ish­ing glass­es be­hind the bar counter; a cou­ple of war­locks hav­ing a mut­tered con­ver­sa­tion in the far cor­ner glanced at Hermione and drew back in­to the shad­ows.

“Madam Lestrange,” mur­mured Tom, and as Hermione paused he in­clined his head sub­servient­ly.

“Good morn­ing,” said Hermione, and as Har­ry crept past, still car­ry­ing Griphook pig­gy­back un­der the Cloak, he saw Tom look sur­prised.

“Too po­lite,” Har­ry whis­pered in Hermione's ear as they passed out of the Inn in­to the tiny back­yard. “You need to treat peo­ple like they're scum!”

“Okay, okay!”

Hermione drew out Bel­la­trix's wand and rapped a brick in the non­de­script wall in front of them. At once the bricks be­gan to whirl and spin: A hole ap­peared in the mid­dle of them, which grew wider and wider, fi­nal­ly form­ing an arch­way on­to the nar­row cob­bled street that was Di­agon Al­ley.

It was qui­et, bare­ly time for the shops to open, and there were hard­ly and shop­pers abroad. The crooked, cob­bled street was much al­tered now from the bustling place Har­ry had vis­it­ed be­fore his first team at Hog­warts so many years be­fore. More shops than ev­er were board­ed up, though sev­er­al new es­tab­lish­ments ded­icat­ed to the Dark Arts had been cre­at­ed since his last vis­it. Har­ry's own face glared down at him from posters plas­tered over many win­dows, al­ways cap­tioned with the words UN­DE­SIR­ABLE NUM­BER ONE.

A num­ber of ragged peo­ple sat hud­dled in door­ways. He heard them moan­ing to the few passers­by, plead­ing for gold, in­sist­ing that they were re­al­ly wiz­ards. One man had a bloody ban­dage over his eye.

As they set off along the street, the beg­gars glimpsed Hermione. they seemed to melt away be­fore her, draw­ing hoods over their faces and flee­ing as fast as they could. Hermione looked af­ter them cu­ri­ous­ly, un­til the man with the blood­ied ban­dage came stag­ger­ing right across her path.

“My chil­dren,” he bel­lowed, point­ing at her. His voice was cracked, high-​pitched, he sound­ed dis­traught. “Where are my chil­dren? What has he done with them? You know, you know!”

“I--I re­al­ly--” stam­mered Hermione.

The man lunged at her, reach­ing for her throat. Then, with a bang and a burst of red light he was thrown back­ward on­to the ground, un­con­scious. Ron stood there, his wand still out­stretched and a look of shock vis­ible be­hind his beard. Faces ap­peared at the win­dows on ei­ther side of the street, while a lit­tle knot of pros­per­ous-​look­ing passer­by gath­ered their robes about them and broke in­to gen­tle trots, keen to va­cate the scene.

their en­trance in­to Di­agon Al­ley could hard­ly have been more con­spic­uous; for a mo­ment Har­ry won­dered whether it might not be bet­ter to leave now and try to think of a dif­fer­ent plan. Be­fore they could move or con­sult one an­oth­er, how­ev­er, they heard a cry from be­hind them.

“Why, Madam Lestrange!”

Har­ry whirled around and Griphook tight­ened his hold around Har­ry's neck: A tall, think wiz­ard with a crown of bushy gray hair and a long, sharp nose was strid­ing to­ward them.

“It's Travers,” hissed the gob­lin in­to Har­ry's ear, but at that mo­ment Har­ry could not think who Travers was. Hermione had drawn her­self up to full height and said with as much con­tempt as she could muster:

“And what do you want?”

Travers stopped in his tracks, clear­ly af­front­ed.

“He's an­oth­er Death Eater!” breathed Griphook, and Har­ry si­dled side­ways to re­peat the in­for­ma­tion in­to Hermione's ear.

“I mere­ly sought to greet you,” said Travers cool­ly, “but if my pres­ence is not wel­come . . .”

Har­ry rec­og­nized his voice now: Travers was one of the Death Eaters who had been sum­moned to Xenophilius’s house.

“No, no, not at all, Travers,” said Hermione quick­ly, try­ing to cov­er up her mis­take. “How are you?”

“Well, I con­fess I am sur­prised to see you out and about, Bel­la­trix.”

“Re­al­ly? Why?” asked Hermione.

“Well,” Travers coughed, “I heard that the In­hab­itants of Mal­foy Manor were con­fined to the house, af­ter the . . . ah . . . es­cape.”

Har­ry willed Hermione to keep her head. If this was true, and Bel­la­trix was not sup­posed to be out in pub­lic--

“The Dark Lord for­gives those who have served him most faith­ful­ly in the past,” said Hermione in a mag­nif­icent im­ita­tion of Bel­la­trix's most con­temp­tu­ous man­ner. “Per­haps your cred­it is not as good with him as mine is, Travers.”

Though the Death Eater looked of­fend­ed, he al­so seemed less sus­pi­cious. He glanced down at the man Ron had just Stunned.

“How did it of­fend you?”

“It does not mat­ter, it will not do so again,” said Hermione cool­ly.

“Some of these wand­less can be trou­ble­some,” said Travers. “While they do noth­ing but beg I have no ob­jec­tion, but one of them ac­tu­al­ly asked me to plead her case in the Min­istry last week. 'I'm a witch, sir, I'm a witch, let me prove it to you!” he said in a squeaky im­per­son­ation. “As if I was go­ing to give her my wand--but whose wand,” said Travers cu­ri­ous­ly, “are you us­ing at the mo­ment, Bel­la­trix? I heard that your own was--”

“I have my wand here,” said Hermione cold­ly, hold­ing up Bel­la­trix's wand. “I don't know what ru­mors you have been lis­ten­ing to, Travers, but you seem sad­ly mis­in­formed.”

Travers seemed a lit­tle tak­en aback at that, and he turned in­stead to Ron.

“Who is your friend? I do not rec­og­nize him.”

“This is Dragomir Despard,” said Hermione; they had de­cid­ed that a fic­tion­al for­eign­er was the safest cov­er for Ron to as­sume. “He speaks very lit­tle En­glish, but he is in sym­pa­thy with the Dark Lord's aims. He has trav­eled here from Tran­syl­va­nia to see our new regime.”

“In­deed? How do you do, Dragomir?”

“'Ow you?” said Ron, hold­ing out his hand.

Travers ex­tend­ed two fin­gers and shook Ron's hand as though fright­ened of dirty­ing him­self.

So what brings you and your--ah--sym­pa­thet­ic friend to Di­agon Al­ley this ear­ly?" asked Travers.

“I need to vis­it Gringotts,” said Hermione.

“Alas, I al­so,” said Travers. “Gold, filthy gold! We can­not live with­out it, yet I con­fess I de­plore the ne­ces­si­ty of con­sort­ing with our long-​fin­gered friends.”

Har­ry felt Griphook's clasped hands tight­en mo­men­tar­ily around his neck.

“Shall we?” said Travers, ges­tur­ing Hermione for­ward.

Hermione had no choice but to fall in­to step be­side him and head along the crooked, cob­bled street to­ward the place where the snowy-​white Gringotts stood tow­er­ing over the oth­er lit­tle shops. Ron sloped along be­side them, and Har­ry and Griphook fol­lowed.

A watch­ful Death Eater was the very last thing they need­ed, and the worst of it was, with Travers match­ing at what he be­lieved to be Bel­la­trix's side, there was no means for Har­ry to com­mu­ni­cate with Hermione or Ron. All too soon they ar­rived at the foot of the mar­ble steps lead­ing up to the great bronze doors. As Griphook had al­ready warned them, the liv­er­ied gob­lins who usu­al­ly flanked the en­trance had been re­placed by two wiz­ards, both of whom were clutch­ing long thin gold­en rods.

“Ah, Pro­bity Probes,” signed Travers the­atri­cal­ly, “so crude--but so ef­fec­tive!”

And he set off up the steps, nod­ding left and right to the wiz­ards, who raised the gold­en rods and passed them up and down his body. The Probes, Har­ry knew, de­tect­ed spells of con­ceal­ment and hid­den mag­ical ob­jects. Know­ing that he had on­ly sec­onds, Har­ry point­ed Dra­co's wand at each of the guards in turn and mur­mured, “Con­fun­do” twice. Un­no­ticed by Travers, who was look­ing through the bronze doors at the in­ner hall, each of the guards gave a lit­tle start as the spells hit them.

Hermione's long black hair rip­pled be­hind her as she climbed the steps.

“One mo­ment, madam,” said the guard, rais­ing his Probe.

“But you've just done that!” said Hermione in Bel­la­trix's com­mand­ing, ar­ro­gant voice. Travers looked around, eye­brows raised. The guard was con­fused. He stared down at the thin gold­en Probe and then at his com­pan­ion, who said in a slight­ly dazed voice,

“Yeah, you've just checked them, Mar­ius.”

Hermione swept for­ward. Ron by her side, Har­ry and Griphook trot­ting in­vis­ibly be­hind them. Har­ry glanced back as they crossed the thresh­old. The wiz­ards were both scratch­ing their heads.

Two gob­lins stood be­fore the in­ner doors, which were made of sil­ver and which car­ried the po­em warn­ing of dire ret­ri­bu­tion to po­ten­tial thieves. Har­ry looked up at it, and all of a sud­den a knife-​sharp mem­ory came to him: stand­ing on this very spot on the day that he had turned eleven, the most won­der­ful birth­day of his life, and Ha­grid stand­ing be­side him say­ing, “Like I said, yeh'd be mad ter try an' rob it.” Gringotts had seemed a place of won­der that day, the en­chant­ed repos­ito­ry of a trove of gold he had nev­er known he pos­sessed, and nev­er for an in­stant could he have dreamed that he would re­turn to steal . . . But with­in sec­onds they were stand­ing in the vast mar­ble hall of the bank.

The long counter was manned by gob­lins sit­ting on high stools serv­ing the first cus­tomers of the day. Hermione, Ron, and Travers head­ed to­ward an old gob­lin who was ex­am­in­ing a thick gold coin through an eye­glass. Hermione al­lowed Travers to step ahead of her on the pre­text of ex­plain­ing fea­tures of the hall to Ron.

The gob­lin tossed the coin he was hold­ing aside, said to no­body in par­tic­ular, “Lep­rechaun,” and then greet­ed Travers, who passed over a tiny gold­en key, which was ex­am­ined and giv­en back to him.

Hermione stepped for­ward.

“Madam Lestrange!” said the gob­lin, ev­ident­ly star­tled. “Dear me!” How--how may I help you to­day?"

“I wish to en­ter my vault,” said Hermione.

The old gob­lin seemed to re­coil a lit­tle. Har­ry glanced around. Not on­ly was Travers hang­ing back, watch­ing, but sev­er­al oth­er gob­lins had looked up from their work to stare at Hermione.

“You have . . . iden­ti­fi­ca­tion?” asked the gob­lin.

“Iden­ti­fi­ca­tion? I--I have nev­er been asked for iden­ti­fi­ca­tion be­fore!” said Hermione.

“They know!” whis­pered Griphook in Har­ry's ear, “They must have been warned there might be an im­poster!”

“Your wand will do, madam,” said the gob­lin. He held out a slight­ly trem­bling hand, and in a dread­ful blast of re­al­iza­tion Har­ry knew that the gob­lins of Gringotts were aware that Bel­la­trix's wand had been stolen.

“Act now, act now,” whis­pered Griphook in Har­ry's ear, “the Im­pe­ri­ous Curse!”

Har­ry raised the hawthorn wand be­neath the cloak, point­ed it at the old gob­lin, and whis­pered, for the first time in his life, “Im­pe­rio!”

A cu­ri­ous sen­sa­tion shot down Har­ry's arm, a feel­ing of tin­gling, warmth that seemed to flow from his mind, down the sinews and veins con­nect­ing him to the wand and the curse it had just cast. The gob­lin took Bel­la­trix's wand, ex­am­ined it close­ly, and then said, “Ah, you have had a new wand made, Madam Lestrange!”

“What?” said Hermione, “No, no, that's mine--”

“A new wand?” said Travers, ap­proach­ing the counter again; still the gob­lins all around were watch­ing. “But how could you have done, which wand­mak­er did you use?”

Har­ry act­ed with­out think­ing. Point­ing his wand at Travers, he mut­tered, “Im­pe­rio!” once more.

“Oh yes, I see,” said Travers, look­ing down at Bel­la­trix's wand, “yes, very hand­some. and is it work­ing well? I al­ways think wands re­quire a lit­tle break­ing in, don't you?”

Hermione looked ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered, but to Har­ry's enor­mous re­lief she ac­cept­ed the bizarre turn of events with­out com­ment.

The old gob­lin be­hind the counter clapped his hands and a younger gob­lin ap­proached.

“I shall need the Clankers,” he told the gob­lin, who dashed away and re­turned a mo­ment lat­er with a leather bag that seemed to be full of jan­gling met­al, which he hand­ed to his se­nior. “Good, good! S, if you will fol­low me, Madam Lestrange,” said the old gob­lin, hop­ping down off his stool and van­ish­ing from sight. “I shall take you to your vault.”

He ap­peared around the end of the counter, jog­ging hap­pi­ly to­ward them, the con­tents of the leather bag still jin­gling. Travers was now stand­ing quite still with his mouth hang­ing wide open. Ron was draw­ing at­ten­tion to this odd phe­nomenon by re­gard­ing Travers with con­fu­sion.

“Wait – Bogrod!”

An­oth­er gob­lin came scur­ry­ing around the counter.

“We have in­struc­tions,” he said with a bow to Hermione. “For­give me, Madam, but there have been spe­cial or­ders re­gard­ing the vault of Lestrange.”

He whis­pered ur­gent­ly in Bogrod’s ear, but the Im­periused gob­lin shook him off.

“I am aware of the in­struc­tions, Madam Lestrange wish­es to vis­it her vault … Very old fam­ily … old clients … This way, please … “

And, still clank­ing, he hur­ried to­ward one of the many doors lead­ing off the hall. Har­ry looked back at Travers , who was still root­ed to the spot look­ing ab­nor­mal­ly va­cant, and made his de­ci­sion. With a flick of his wand he made Travers come with them, walk­ing meek­ly in their wake as they reached the door and passed in­to the rough stone pas­sage­way be­yond, which was lit with flam­ing torch­es.

“We’re in trou­ble; they sus­pect,” said Har­ry as the door slammed be­hind them and he pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Griphook jumped down from his shoul­ders: nei­ther Travers nor Bogrod showed the slight­est sur­prise at the sud­den ap­pear­ance of Har­ry Pot­ter in their midst. “They’re Im­periused,” he added, in re­sponse to Hermione and Ron’s con­fused queries about Travers and Bogrod, who were both now stand­ing there look­ing blank. “I don’t think I did it strong­ly enough, I don’t know …”

And an­oth­er mem­ory dart­ed through his mind, of the re­al Bel­la­trix Lestrange shriek­ing at him when he had first tried to use an Un­for­giv­able Curse: “You need to mean them, Pot­ter!”

“What do we do?” asked Ron. “Shall we get out now, while we can?”

“If we can,” said Hermione, look­ing back to­ward the door in­to the main hall, be­yond which who knew what was hap­pen­ing.

“We’ve got this far, I say we go on,” said Har­ry.

“Good!” said Griphook. “So, we need Bogrod to con­trol the cart; I no long have the au­thor­ity. But there will not be room for the wiz­ard.”

Har­ry point­ed his wand at Travers.

“Im­pe­rio!”

The wiz­ard turned and set off along the dark track at a smart pace.

“What are you mak­ing him do?”

“Hide,” said Har­ry as he point­ed his wand at Bogrod, who whis­tled to sum­mon a lit­tle cart that came trundling along the tracks to­ward them out of the dark­ness. Har­ry was sure he could hear shout­ing be­hind them in the main hall as they all clam­bered in­to it, Bogrod in front of Griphook, Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione crammed to­geth­er in the back.

With a jerk the cart moved off, gath­er­ing speed: They hur­ried past Travers, who was wrig­gling in­to a crack in the wall, then the cart be­gan twist­ing and turn­ing through the labyrinthine pas­sages, slop­ing down­ward all the time. Har­ry could not hear any­thing over the rat­tling of the cart on the tracks: His hair flew be­hind him as they swerved be­tween sta­lac­tites, fly­ing ev­er deep­er in­to the earth, but he kept glanc­ing back. They might as well have left enor­mous foot­prints be­hind them; the more he thought about it, the more fool­ish it seemed to have dis­guised Hermione as Bel­la­trix, to have brought along Bel­la­trix’s wand, when the Death Eaters knew who had stolen it –

There were a deep­er than Har­ry had ev­er pen­etrat­ed with­in Gringotts; they took a hair­pin bend at speed and saw ahead of them, with sec­onds to spare, a wa­ter­fall pound­ing over the track. Har­ry heard Griphook shout, “No!” but there was no brak­ing. They zoomed through it. Wa­ter filled Har­ry’s eyes and mouth: He could not see or breathe: Then, with an aw­ful lurch, the cart flipped over and they were all thrown out of it. Har­ry heard the cart smash in­to pieces against the pas­sage wall, heard Hermione shriek some­thing, and felt him­self glide back to­ward the ground as though weight­less, land­ing painless­ly on the rocky pas­sage floor.

“C-​Cush­ion­ing Charm,” Hermione splut­tered, as Ron pulled her to her feet, but to Har­ry’s hor­ror he saw that she was no longer Bel­la­trix; in­stead she stood there in over­large robes, sop­ping wet and com­plete­ly her­self; Ron was red-​haired and beard­less again. They were re­al­iz­ing it as they looked at each oth­er, feel­ing their own faces.

“The Thief’s Down­fall!” said Griphook, clam­ber­ing to his feet and look­ing back the del­uge on­to the tracks, which, Har­ry knew now, had been more than wa­ter. “It wash­es away all en­chant­ment, all mag­ical con­ceal­ment! They know there are im­posers in Gringotts, they have set off de­fens­es against us!”

Har­ry saw Hermione check­ing that she still had the bead­ed bag, and hur­ried­ly thrust his own hand un­der his jack­et to make sure he had not lost the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Then he turned to see Bogrod shak­ing his head in be­wil­der­ment: The Thief’s Down­fall seemed to have lift­ed his Im­perius Curse.

“We need him,” said Griphook, “we can­not en­ter the vault with­out a Gringott’s gob­lin. And we need the clankers!”

“Im­pe­rio!” Har­ry said again; his voice echoed through the stone pas­sage as he felt again the sense of heady con­trol that flowed from brain to wand. Bogrod sub­mit­ted once more to his will, his be­fud­dled ex­pres­sion chang­ing to one of po­lite in­dif­fer­ence, as Ron hur­ried to pick up the leather bag of met­al tools.

“Har­ry, I think I can hear peo­ple com­ing!” said Hermione, and she point­ed Bel­la­trix’s wand at the wa­ter­fall and cried, “Pro­tego!” They saw the Shield Charm break the flow of en­chant­ed wa­ter as it flew up the pas­sage­way.

“Good think­ing,” said Har­ry. “Lead the way, Griphook!”

“How are we go­ing to get out again?” Ron asked as they hur­ried on foot in­to the dark­ness af­ter the gob­lin, Bogrod pant­ing in their wake like an old dog.

“Let’s wor­ry about that when we have to,” said Har­ry. He was try­ing to lis­ten: He thought he could hear some­thing clank­ing and mov­ing around near­by. “Griphook, how much far­ther?”

“Not far, Har­ry Pot­ter, not far … “

And they turned a cor­ner and saw the thing for which Har­ry had been pre­pared, but which still brought all of them to a halt.

A gi­gan­tic drag­on was teth­ered to the ground in front of them, bar­ring ac­cess to four or five of the deep­est vaults in the place. The beast’s scales had turned pale and flaky dur­ing its long in­car­cer­ation un­der the ground, its eyes were milk­ily pink; both rear legs bore heavy cuffs from which chains led to enor­mous pegs driv­en deep in­to the rocky floor. Its great spiked wings, fold­ed close to its body, would have filled the cham­ber if it spread them, and when it turned its ug­ly head to­ward them, it roared with a noise that made the rock trem­ble, opened its mouth, and spat a jet of fire that sent them run­ning back up the pas­sage­way.

“It is par­tial­ly blind,” pant­ed Griphook, “but even more sav­age for that. How­ev­er, we have the means to con­trol it. It has learned what to ex­pect when the Clankers come. Give them to me.”

Ron passed the bag to Griphook, and the gob­lin pulled out a num­ber of small met­al in­stru­ments that when shak­en made a long ring­ing noise like minia­ture ham­mers on anvils. Griphook hand­ed them out: Bogrod ac­cept­ed his meek­ly.

“You know what to do,” Griphook told Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione. “It will ex­pect pain when it hears the noise. It will re­treat, and Bogrod must place his palm up­on the door of the vault.”

They ad­vanced around the cor­ner again, shak­ing the Clankers, and the noise echoed off the rocky walls, gross­ly mag­ni­fied, so that the in­side of Har­ry’s skull seemed to vi­brate with the den. The drag­on let out an­oth­er hoarse roar, then re­treat­ed. Har­ry could see it trem­bling, and as they drew near­er he saw the scars made by vi­cious slash­es across its face, and guess that it had been taught to fear hot swords when it heard the sound of the Clankers.

“Make him press his hand to the door!” Griphook urged Har­ry, who turned his wand again up­on Bogrod. The old gob­lin obeyed, press­ing his palm to the wood, and the door of the vault melt­ed away to re­veal a cave­like open­ing crammed from floor to ceil­ing with gold­en coins and gob­lets, sil­ver ar­mor, the skins of strange crea­tures – some with long spines, oth­er with droop­ing wings – po­tions in jew­eled flasks, and a skull still wear­ing a crown. “Search, fast!” said Har­ry as they all hur­ried in­side the vault. He had de­scribed Huf­flepuff’s cap to Ron and Hermione, but if it was the oth­er, un­known Hor­crux that resid­ed in this vault, he did not know what it looked like. He bare­ly had time to glance around, how­ev­er, be­fore there was a muf­fled clunk from be­hind them: The door had reap­peared, seal­ing them in­side the vault, and they were plunged in­to to­tal dark­ness.

“No mat­ter, Bogrod will be able to re­lease us!” said Griphook as Ron gave a shout of sur­prise. “Light your wands, can’t you? And hur­ry, we have lit­tle time!”

“Lu­mos!”

Har­ry shone his lit wand around the vault: Its beam fell up­on glit­ter­ing jew­els; he saw the fake sword of Gryffind­or ly­ing on a high shelf amongst a jum­ble of chains. Ron and Hermione had lit their wands too, and were now ex­am­in­ing the piles of ob­jects sur­round­ing them.

“Har­ry, could this be -- ? Aargh!”

Hermione screamed in pain, and Har­ry turned his wand on her in time to see a jew­eled gob­let tum­bling from her grip. But as it fell, it split, be­came a show­er of gob­lets, so that a sec­ond lat­er, with a great clat­ter, the floor was cov­ered in iden­ti­cal cups rolling in ev­ery di­rec­tion, the orig­inal im­pos­si­ble to dis­cern amongst them.

“It burned me!” moaned Hermione, suck­ing her blis­tered fin­gers.

“They have added Ger­mi­no and Fla­grante Curs­es!” said Griphook.

“Ev­ery­thing you touch will burn and mul­ti­ply, but the copies are worth­less – and if you con­tin­ue to han­dle the trea­sure, you will even­tu­al­ly be crushed to death by the weight of ex­pand­ing gold!”

“Okay, don’t touch any­thing!” said Har­ry des­per­ate­ly, but even as he said it, Ron ac­ci­den­tal­ly nudged one of the fall­en gob­lets with his foot, and twen­ty more ex­plod­ed in­to be­ing while Ron hopped on the spot, part of his shoe burned away by con­tact with the hot met­al.

“Stand still, don’t move!” said Hermione, clutch­ing at Ron.

“Just look around!” said Har­ry. “Re­mem­ber, the cup’s small and gold, it’s got a bad­ger en­graved on it, two han­dles – oth­er­wise see if you can spot Raven­claw’s sym­bol any­where, the ea­gle –”

They di­rect­ed their wands in­to ev­ery nook and crevice, turn­ing cau­tious­ly on the spot. It was im­pos­si­ble not to brush up against any­thing; Har­ry sent a great cas­cade of fake Galleons on­to the ground where they joined the gob­lets, and now there was scarce­ly room to place their feet, and the glow­ing gold blazed with heat, so that the vault felt like a fur­nace. Har­ry’s wan­dlight passed over shields and gob­lin-​made hel­mets set on shelves ris­ing to the ceil­ing; high­er and high­er he raised the beam, un­til sud­den­ly it found an ob­ject that made his heart skip and his hand trem­ble.

“It’s there, it’s up there!”

Ron and Hermione point­ed there wands at it too, so that the lit­tle gold­en cup sparkled in a three-​way spot­light: the cup that had be­longed to Hel­ga Huf­flepuff, which had passed in­to the pos­ses­sion of Hep­zibah Smith, from whom it had been stolen by Tom Rid­dle.

“And how the hell are we go­ing to get up there with­out touch­ing any­thing?” asked Ron.

“Ac­cio Cup!” cried Hermione, who had ev­ident­ly for­got­ten in her des­per­ation what Griphook had told them dur­ing their plan­ning ses­sions.

“No use, no use!” snarled the gob­lin.

“Then what do we do?” said Har­ry, glar­ing at the gob­lin. “If you want the sword, Griphook, then you’ll have to help us more than – wait! Can I touch stuff with the sword? Hermione, give it here!”

Hermione fum­bled in­sid­er her robes, drew out a bead­ed bag, rum­maged for a few sec­onds, then re­moved the shin­ing sword. Har­ry seized it by its ru­bied hilt and touched the tip of the blade to a sil­ver flagon near­by, which did not mul­ti­ply.

“If I can just poke the sword through a han­dle – but how am I go­ing to get up there?”

The shelf on which the cup re­posed was out of reach for any of them, even Ron, who was tallest. The heat from the en­chant­ed trea­sure rose in waves, and sweat ran down Har­ry’s face and back as he strug­gled to think of a way up to the cup; and then he heard the drag­on roar on the oth­er side of the vault door, and the sound of clank­ing grow­ing loud­er and loud­er.

They were tru­ly trapped now: There was no way out ex­cept through the door, and a horde of gob­lins seemed to be ap­proach­ing on the oth­er side. Har­ry looked at Ron and Hermione and saw ter­ror in their faces.

“Hermione,” said Har­ry, as the clank­ing grew loud­er, “I’ve got to get up there, we’ve got to get rid of it –”

She raised her wand, point­ed it at Har­ry, and whis­pered, “Lev­icor­pus.”

Hoist­ed in­to the air by his an­kle, Har­ry hit a suit of ar­mor and repli­cas burst out of it like white-​hot bod­ies, fill­ing the cramped space. With screams of pain, Ron, Hermione, and the two gob­lins were knocked aside in­to oth­er ob­jects, which al­so be­gan to repli­cate. Half buried in a ris­ing tide of red-​hot trea­sure, they strug­gled and yelled has Har­ry thrust the sword through the han­dle of Huf­flepuff’s cup, hook­ing it on­to the blade.

“Im­per­vius!” screeched Hermione in an at­tempt to pro­tect her­self, Ron, and the gob­lins from the burn­ing met­al.

Then the worst scream yet made Har­ry look down: Ron and Hermione were waist deep in trea­sure, strug­gling to keep Bogrod from slip­ping be­neath the ris­ing tide, but Griphook had sunk out of sight; and noth­ing but the tips of a few long fin­gers were left in view.

Har­ry seized Griphook’s fin­gers and pulled. The blis­tered gob­lin emerged by de­grees, howl­ing.

“Lib­er­ato­cor­pus!” yelled Har­ry, and with a crash he and Griphook land­ed on the sur­face of the swelling trea­sure, and the sword flew out of Har­ry’s hand.

“Get it!” Har­ry yelled, fight­ing the pain of the hot met­al on his skin, as Griphook clam­bered on­to his shoul­ders again, de­ter­mined to avoid the swelling mass of red-​hot ob­jects. “Where’s the sword? It had the cup on it!”

The clank­ing on the oth­er side of the door was grow­ing deaf­en­ing – it was too late –

“There!”

It was Griphook who had seen it and Griphook who lunged, and in that in­stant Har­ry knew that the gob­lin had nev­er ex­pect­ed them to keep their word. One hand hold­ing tight­ly to a fist­ful of Har­ry’s hair, to make sure he did not fall in­to the heav­ing sea of burn­ing gold, Griphook seized the hilt of the sword and swung it high out of Har­ry’s reach. The tiny gold­en cup, skew­ered by the han­dle on the sword’s blade was flung in­to the air. The gob­lin astride him, Har­ry dived and caught it, and al­though he could feel it scald­ing his flesh he did not re­lin­quish it, even while count­less Huf­flepuff cups burst from his fist, rain­ing down up­on him as the en­trance of the vault opened up again and he found him­self slid­ing un­con­trol­lably on an ex­pand­ing avalanche of fiery gold and sil­ver that bore him, Ron, Hermione in­to the out­er cham­ber.

Hard­ly aware of the pain from the burns cov­er­ing his body, and still borne along the swell of repli­cat­ing trea­sure, Har­ry shoved the cup in­to his pock­et and reached up to re­trieve the sword, but Griphook was gone. Slid­ing from Har­ry’s shoul­ders the mo­ment he could, he had sprint­ed for cov­er amongst the sur­round­ing gob­lins, bran­dish­ing the sword and cry­ing, “Thieves! Thieves! Help! Thieves!” He van­ished in­to the midst of the ad­vanc­ing crowd, all of whom were hold­ing dag­gers and who ac­cept­ed him with­out ques­tion.

Slip­ping on the hot met­al, Har­ry strug­gled to his feet and knew that the on­ly way out was through.

“Stu­pe­fy!” he bel­lowed, and Ron and Hermione joined in: Jets of red light flew in­to the crowd of gob­lins, and some top­pled over, but oth­ers ad­vanced, and Har­ry saw sev­er­al wiz­ard guards run­ning around the cor­ner.

The teth­ered drag­on let out a roar, and a gush of flame flew over the gob­lins; The wiz­ards fled, dou­bled-​up, back the way they had come, and in­spi­ra­tion, or mad­ness, came to Har­ry. Point­ing his wand at the thick cuffs chain­ing the beast to the floor, he yelled, “Re­lashio!”

The cuffs bro­ken open with loud bangs.

“This way!” Har­ry yelled, and still shoot­ing Stun­ning Spells at the ad­vanc­ing gob­lins, he sprint­ed to­ward the blind drag­on.

“Har­ry – Har­ry – what are you do­ing?” cried Hermione.

“Get up, climb up, come on –”

The drag­on had not re­al­ized that it was free: Har­ry’s foot found the crook of its hind leg and he pulled him­self up on­to its back. The scales were hard as steel; it did not even seem to feel him. He stretched out an arm; Hermione hoist­ed her­self up; Ron climbed on be­hind them, and a sec­ond lat­er the drag­on be­came aware that it was un­teth­ered.

With a roar it reared: Har­ry dug in his knees, clutch­ing as tight­ly as he could to the jagged scales as the wings opened, knock­ing the shriek­ing gob­lins aside like skit­tles, and it soared in­to the air. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione, flat on its back, scraped against the ceil­ing as it dived to­ward the pas­sage open­ing, while the pur­su­ing gob­lins hurled dag­gers that glanced off its flanks.

“We’ll nev­er get out, it’s too big!” Hermione screamed, but the drag­on opened its mouth and belched flame again, blast­ing the tun­nel, whose floors and ceil­ing cracked and crum­bled. By sheer force, the drag­on clawed and fought its way through. Har­ry’s eyes were shut tight against the heat and dust: Deaf­ened by the crash of rock and the drag­on’s roars, he could on­ly cling to its back, ex­pect­ing to be shak­en off at any mo­ment; then he heard Hermione yelling, “De­fo­dio!”

She was help­ing the drag­on en­large the pas­sage­way, carv­ing out the ceil­ing as it strug­gled up­ward to­ward the fresh­er air, away from the shriek­ing and clank­ing gob­lins: Har­ry and Ron copied her, blast­ing the ceil­ing apart with more goug­ing spells. They passed the un­der­ground lake, and the great crawl­ing, snarling beast seemed to sense free­dom and space ahead of it, and be­hind them the pas­sage was full of the drag­on’s thrash­ing, spiked tail, of great lumps of rock, gi­gan­tic frac­tured sta­lac­tites, and the clank­ing of the gob­lins seemed to be grow­ing more muf­fled, while ahead, the drag­on’s fire kept their progress clear –

And then at last, by the com­bined force of their spells and the drag­on’s brute strength, they had blast­ed their way out of the pas­sage in­to the mar­ble hall­way. Gob­lins and wiz­ards shrieked and ran for cov­er, and fi­nal­ly the drag­on had room to stretch its wings: Turn­ing its horned head to­ward the cool out­side air it could smell be­yond the en­trance, it took off, and with Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione still cling­ing to its back, it forced its way through the met­al doors, leav­ing them buck­led and hang­ing from their hinges, as it stag­gered in­to Di­agon Al­ley and launched it­self in­to the sky.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN


THE FI­NAL HID­ING PLACE



There was no means of steer­ing; the drag­on could not see where it was go­ing, and Har­ry knew that if it turned sharply or rolled in midair they would find it im­pos­si­ble to cling on­to its broad back. Nev­er­the­less, as they climbed high­er and high­er, Lon­don un­furl­ing be­low them like a gray-​and-​green map, Har­ry's over­whelm­ing feel­ing was of grat­itude for an es­cape that had seemed im­pos­si­ble.

Crouch­ing low over the beast's neck, he clung tight to the metal­lic scales, and the cool breeze was sooth­ing on his burned and blis­tered skin, the drag­on's wings beat­ing the air like the sails of a wind­mill. Be­hind him, whether from de­light or fear he could not tell. Ron kept swear­ing at the top of his voice, and Hermione seemed to be sob­bing.

Af­ter five min­utes or so, Har­ry lost some of his im­me­di­ate dread that the drag­on was go­ing to throw them off, for it seemed in­tent on noth­ing but get­ting as far away from its un­der­ground prison as pos­si­ble; but the ques­tion of how and when they were to dis­mount re­mained rather fright­en­ing. He had no idea how long drag­ons could fly with­out land­ing, nor how this par­tic­ular drag­on, which could bare­ly see, would lo­cate a good place to put down. He glanced around con­stant­ly, imag­in­ing that he could feel his seat prick­ling.

How long would it be be­fore Volde­mort knew that they had bro­ken in­to the Lestranges' vault? How soon would the gob­lins of Gringotts no­ti­fy Bel­la­trix? How quick­ly would they re­al­ize what had been tak­en? And then, when they dis­cov­ered that the gold­en cup was miss­ing? Volde­mort would know, at last, that they were hunt­ing Hor­crux­es.

The drag­on seemed to crave cool­er and fresh­er air. It climbed steadi­ly un­til they were fly­ing through wisps of chilly cloud, and Har­ry could no longer make out the lit­tle col­ored dots which were cars pour­ing in and out of the cap­ital. On and on they flew, over coun­try­side parceled out in patch­es of green and brown, over roads and rivers wind­ing through the land­scape like strips of mat­te and glossy rib­bon.

“What do you reck­on it's look­ing for?” Ron yelled as they flew far­ther and far­ther north. “No idea,” Har­ry bel­low back. His hands were numb with cold but he did not date at­tempt to shift his grip. He had been won­der­ing for some time what they would do if they saw the coast sail be­neath them, if the drag­on head­ed for open seal he was cold and numb, not to men­tion des­per­ate­ly hun­gry and thirsty. When, he won­dered, had the beast it­self last eat­en? Sure­ly it would need sus­te­nance be­fore long? And what if, at that point, it re­al­ized it had three high­ly ed­ible hu­mans sit­ting on its back?

The sun slipped low­er in the sky, which was turn­ing in­di­go; and still the drag­on flew, cities and towns glid­ing out of sight be­neath them, its enor­mous shad­ow slid­ing over the earth like a gi­ant dark cloud. Ev­ery part of Har­ry ached with the ef­fort of hold­ing on to the drag­on's back.

“Is it my imag­ina­tion,” shout­ed Ron af­ter a con­sid­er­able stretch of si­lence, “or are we los­ing height?” Har­ry looked down and saw deep green moun­tains and lakes, cop­pery in the sun­set. the land­scape seemed to grow larg­er and more de­tailed as he squint­ed over the side of the drag­on, and he won­dered whether it had di­vined the pres­ence of fresh wa­ter by the flash­es of re­flect­ed sun­light. Low­er and low­er the drag­on flew, in great spi­ral­ing cir­cles, hon­ing in, it seemed, up­on one of the small­er lakes.

“I say we jump when it gets low enough!” Har­ry called back to the oth­ers. “Straight in­to the wa­ter be­fore it re­al­izes we're here!”

They agreed, Hermione a lit­tle faint­ly, and now Har­ry could see the drag­on's wide yel­low un­der­bel­ly rip­pling in the sur­face of the wa­ter. “NOW!”

He slith­ered over the side of the drag­on and plum­met­ed feet­first to­ward the sur­face of the lake; the drop was greater than he had es­ti­mat­ed and he hit the wa­ter hard, plung­ing like a stone in­to a freez­ing, green, reed-​filled world. He kicked to­ward the sur­face and emerged, pant­ing, to see enor­mous rip­ples em­anat­ing in cir­cles from the places where Ron and Hermione had fall­en. The drag­on did not seem to have no­ticed any­thing; it was al­ready fifty feet away, swoop­ing low over the lake to scoop up wa­ter in its scarred snout. As Ron and Hermione emerged, splut­ter­ing and gasp­ing, from the depths of the lake, the drag­on flew on, its wings beat­ing hard, and land­ed at last on a dis­tant bank.

Har­ry, Ron and Hermione struck out for the op­po­site shore. The lake did not seem to be deep. Soon it was more a ques­tion of fight­ing their way through reeds and mud than swim­ming, and at last they flopped, sod­den, pant­ing, and ex­haust­ed, on­to slip­pery grass.

Hermione col­lapsed, cough­ing and shud­der­ing. Though Har­ry could have hap­pi­ly lain down and slept, he stag­gered to his feet, drew out his wand, and start­ed cast­ing the usu­al pro­tec­tive spells around them.

When he had fin­ished, he joined the oth­ers. It was the first time that he had seen them prop­er­ly since es­cap­ing from the vault. Both had an­gry red burns all over their faces and arms, and their cloth­ing was singed away in places. They were winc­ing as they dabbed essence of dit­tany on­to their many in­juries. Hermione hand­ed Har­ry the bot­tle, then pulled out three bot­tles of pump­kin juice she had brought from Shell Cot­tage and clean, dry robes for all of them. They changes and then gulped down the juice.

“Well, on the up­side,” said Ron fi­nal­ly, who was sit­ting watch­ing the skin on his hands re­grow, “we got the Hor­crux. On the down­side-” “-- no sword,” said Har­ry through grit­ted teeth, as he dripped dit­tany through the singed hole in his jeans on­to the an­gry burn be­neath.

“No sword,” re­peat­ed Ron. “That dou­ble-​cross­ing lit­tle scab...” Har­ry pulled the Hor­crux from the pock­et of the wet jack­et he had just tak­en off and set it down on the grass in front of them. Glint­ing in the sun, it drew their eyes as they swigged their bot­tles of juice.

“At least we can't wear it this time, that'd look a bit weird hang­ing around our necks,” said Ron, wip­ing his mouth on the back of his hand.

Hermione looked across the lake to the far bank where the drag­on was still drink­ing.

“What'll hap­pen to it, do you think?” she asked, “Will it be al­right?”

“You sound like Ha­grid,” said Ron, “It's a drag­on, Hermione, it can look af­ter it­self. It's us we need to wor­ry about.”

“What do you mean?”

“Well I don't know how to break this to you,” said Ron, “but I think they might have no­ticed we broke in­to Gringotts.”

All three of them start­ed to laugh, and once start­ed, it was dif­fi­cult to stop. Har­ry's ribs ached, he felt light­head­ed with hunger, but he lay back on the grass be­neath the red­den­ing sky and laughed un­til his throat was raw.

“What are we go­ing to do, though?” said Hermione fi­nal­ly, hic­cup­ing her­self back to se­ri­ous­ness. “He'll know, won't he? You-​Know-​Who will know we know about his Hor­crux­es!” “Maybe they'll be too scared to tell him!” said Ron hope­ful­ly, “Maybe they'll cov­er up --”

The sky, the smell of the lake wa­ter, the sound of Ron's voice were ex­tin­guished. Pain cleaved Har­ry's head like a sword stroke. He was stand­ing in a dim­ly lit room, and a semi­cir­cle of wiz­ards faced him, and on the floor at his feet knelt a small, quak­ing fig­ure.

“What did you say to me?” His voice was high and cold, but fury and fear burned in­side him. The one thing that he had dread­ed - but it could not be true, he could not see how...

The gob­lin was trem­bling, un­able to meet the red eyes high above his.

“Say it again!” mur­mured Volde­mort. “Say it again!” “M-​my Lord,” stam­mered the gob­lin, its black eyes wide with ter­ror, “m-​my Lord... we t-​tried to st-​stop them... Im-​im­pos­tors, my Lord... broke - broke in­to the - in­to the Lestranges' vault...” "Im­pos­tors? What im­pos­tors? I thought Gringotts had ways of re­veal­ing im­pos­tors? Who were they?

“It was... it was... the P-​Pot­ter b-​boy and the t-​two ac­com­plices...” “And they took?” he said, his voice ris­ing, a ter­ri­ble fear grip­ping him, “Tell me! What did they take?” “A... a s-​small gold­en c-​cup m-​my Lord...”

The scream of rage, of de­nial left him as if it were a stranger's. He was crazed, fren­zied, it could not be true, it was im­pos­si­ble, no­body had known. How was it pos­si­ble that the boy could have dis­cov­ered his se­cret?

The El­der Wand slashed through the air and green light erupt­ed through the room; the kneel­ing gob­lin rolled over dead; the watch­ing wiz­ards scat­tered be­fore him, ter­ri­fied. Bel­la­trix and Lu­cius Mal­foy threw oth­ers be­hind them in their race for the door, and again and again his wand fell, and those who were left were slain, all of them, for bring­ing him this news, for hear­ing about the gold­en cup - Alone amongst the dead he stomped up and down, and they passed be­fore him in vi­sion: his trea­sures, his safe­guards, his an­chors to im­mor­tal­ity - the di­ary was de­stroyed and the cup was stolen. What if, what if, the boy knew about the oth­ers? Could he know, had he al­ready act­ed, had he traced more of them? Was Dum­ble­dore at the root of this? Dum­ble­dore, who had al­ways sus­pect­ed him; Dum­ble­dore, dead on his or­ders; Dum­ble­dore, whose wand was his now, yet who reached out from the ig­nominy of death through the boy, the boy -

But sure­ly if the boy had de­stroyed any of his Hor­crux­es, he, Lord Volde­mort, would have known, would have felt it? He, the great­est wiz­ard of them all; he, the most pow­er­ful; he, the killer of Dum­ble­dore and of how many oth­er worth­less, name­less men. How could Lord Volde­mort not have known, if he, him­self, most im­por­tant and pre­cious, had been at­tacked, mu­ti­lat­ed?

True, he had not felt it when the di­ary had been de­stroyed, but he had thought that was be­cause he had no body to fell, be­ing less than ghost... No, sure­ly, the rest were safe... The oth­er Hor­crux­es must be in­tact...

But he must know, he must be sure... He paced the room, kick­ing aside the gob­lin's corpse as he passed, and the pic­tures blurred and burned in his boil­ing brain: the lake, the shack, and Hog­warts - A mod­icum of calm cooled his rage now. How could the boy know that he had hid­den the ring in the Gaunt shack? No one had ev­er known him to be re­lat­ed to the Gaunts, he had hid­den the con­nec­tion, the killings had nev­er been traced to him. The ring, sure­ly, was safe. And how could the boy, or any­body else, know about the cave or pen­etrate its pro­tec­tion? The idea of the lock­et be­ing stolen was ab­surd...

As for the school: He alone knew where in Hog­warts he had stowed the Hor­crux, be­cause he alone had plumed the deep­est se­crets of that place...

And there was still Nagi­ni, who must re­main close now, no longer sent to do his bid­ding, un­der his pro­tec­tion...

But to be sure, to be ut­ter­ly sure, he must re­turn to each of his hid­ing places, he must re­dou­ble pro­tec­tion around each of his Hor­crux­es... A job, like the quest for the El­der Wand, that he must un­der­take alone...

Which should he vis­it first, which was in most dan­ger? An old un­ease flick­ered in­side him. Dum­ble­dore had known his mid­dle name... Dum­ble­dore might have made the con­nec­tion with the Gaunts... Their aban­doned home was, per­haps, the least se­cure of his hid­ing places, it was there that he would go first...

The lake, sure­ly im­pos­si­ble... though was there a slight pos­si­bil­ity that Dum­ble­dore might have known some of his past mis­deeds, through the or­phan­age.

And Hog­warts... but he knew the his Hor­crux there was safe; it would be im­pos­si­ble for Pot­ter to en­ter Hogsmeade with­out de­tec­tion, let alone the school. Nev­er­the­less, it would be pru­dent to alert Snape to the fact that the boy might try to reen­ter the cas­tle. ... To tell Snape why the boy might re­turn would be fool­ish, of course; it had been a grave mis­take to trust Bel­la­trix and Mal­foy. Didn't their stu­pid­ity and care­less­ness prove how un­wise it was ev­er to trust?

He would vis­it the Gaunt shack first, then, and take Nagi­ni with him. He would not be part­ed from the snake any­more ... and he strode from the room, through the hall, and out in­to the dark gar­den where the foun­tain played; he called the snake in Parsel­tongue and it slith­ered out to join him like a long shad­ow. ...

Har­ry's eyes flew open as he wrenched him­self back to the present. He was ly­ing on the bank of the lake in the set­ting sun, and Ron and Hermione were look­ing down at him. Judg­ing by their wor­ried looks, and by the con­tin­ued pound­ing of his scar, his sud­den ex­cur­sion in­to Volde­mort's mind had not passed un­no­ticed. He strug­gled up, shiv­er­ing, vague­ly sur­prised that he was still wet to his skin, and saw the cup ly­ing in­no­cent­ly in the grass be­fore him, and the lake, deep blue shot with gold in the falling sun.

“He knows.” His own voice sound­ed strange and low af­ter Volde­mort's high screams. “He knows and he's go­ing to check where the oth­ers are, and the last one,” he was al­ready on his feet,“ is at Hog­warts. I knew it. I knew it.” “What?” Ron was gap­ing at him; Hermione sat up, look­ing wor­ried. “But what did you see? How do you know?” “I saw him find out about the cup, I - I was in his head, he's” - Har­ry re­mem­bered the killings - “he's se­ri­ous­ly an­gry, and scared too, he can't un­der­stand how we knew, and now he's go­ing to check the oth­ers are safe, the ring first. He things the Hog­warts one is safest, be­cause Snape's there, be­cause it'll be so hard not to be seen get­ting in. I think he'll check that one last, but he could still be there with­in hours -” “Did you see where in Hog­warts it is?” asked Ron, now scram­bling to his feet too.

“No, he was con­cen­trat­ing on warn­ing Snape, he didn't think about ex­act­ly where it is -” “Wait, wait!” cried Hermione as Ron caught up to the Hor­crux and Har­ry pulled out the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak again. “We can't just go, we haven't got a plan, we need to -” “We need to get go­ing,” said Har­ry firm­ly. He had been hop­ing to sleep, look­ing for­ward to get­ting in­to the new tent, but that was im­pos­si­ble now, "Can you imag­ine what he's go­ing to do once he re­al­izes the ring and the lock­et are gone? What if he moves the Hog­warts Hor­crux, de­cides it isn't safe enough?

“But how are we go­ing to get in?” “We'll go to Hogsmeade,” said Har­ry, “and try to work some­thing out once we see what the pro­tec­tion around the school's like. Get un­der the Cloak, Hermione, I want to stick to­geth­er this time.” “But we don't re­al­ly fit -” “It'll be dark, no one's go­ing to no­tice our feet.” The flap­ping of enor­mous wings echoed across the black wa­ter. The drag­on had drunk its fill and risen in­to the air. They paused in their prepa­ra­tions to watch it climb high­er and high­er, now black against the rapid­ly dark­en­ing sky, un­til it van­ished over a near­by moun­tain. Then Hermione walked for­ward and took her place be­tween the oth­er two, Har­ry pulled the Cloak down as far as it would go, and to­geth­er they turned on the spot in­to the crush­ing dark­ness.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT


THE MISS­ING MIR­ROR





Har­ry's feet touched the road. He saw the aching­ly fa­mil­iar Hogsmeade High Street: dark shop

fronts, and the mist line of black moun­tains be­yond the vil­lage and the curve in the road ahead that led off to­ward Hog­warts, and light spilling from the win­dows of the Three Broom­sticks, and with a lurch of the hear, he re­mem­bered with pierc­ing ac­cu­ra­cy, how he had land­ed here near­ly a year be­fore, sup­port­ing a des­per­ate­ly weak Dum­ble­dore, all this in a sec­ond, up­on land­ing -- and then, even as he re­laxed his grip up­on Ron's and Hermione's arms, it hap­pened.

The air was rent by a scream that sound­ed like Volde­mort's when he had re­al­ized the cup had been stolen: It tore at ev­ery nerve in Har­ry's body, and he knew that their ap­pear­ance had caused it.

Even as he looked at the oth­er two be­neath the Cloak, the door of the Three Broom­sticks burst open and a dozen cloaked and hood­ed Death Eaters dashed in­to the streets, their wands aloft.

Har­ry seized Ron's wrist as he raised his wand; there were too many of them to run. Even at­tempt­ing it would have give away their po­si­tion. One of the Death Eaters raised his wand, and the

scream stopped, still echo­ing around the dis­tant moun­tains.

“Ac­cio Cloak!” roared one of the Death Eaters Har­ry seized his folds, but it made no at­tempt to es­cape. The Sum­mon­ing Charm had not worked on it.

“Not un­der your wrap­per, then, Pot­ter?” yelled the Death Eater who had tried the charm and then to his fel­lows. “Spread now. He's here.”

Six of the Death Eaters ran to­ward them: Har­ry, Ron and Hermione backed as quick­ly as pos­si­ble down the near­est side street, and the Death Eaters missed them by inch­es. They wait­ed in the dark­ness, lis­ten­ing to the foot­steps run­ning up and down, beams of light fly­ing along the street from the Death Eaters' search­ing wands.

“Let's just leave!” Hermione whis­pered. “Dis­ap­pa­rate now!”

“Great idea,” said Ron, but be­fore Har­ry could re­ply, a Death Eater shout­ed,

“We know you are here, Pot­ter, and there's no get­ting away! We'll find you!”

“They were ready for us,” whis­pered Har­ry. "They set up that spell to tell them we'd come.

I reck­on they’ve done some­thing to keep us here, trap us - "

“What about de­men­tors?” called an­oth­er Death Eater.

“Let'em have free rein, they'd find him quick enough!”

“The Dark Lord wants Pot­ter dead by no hands but his - ” “ 'an de­men­tors won't kill him! The Dark Lord wants Pot­ter's life, nor his soul. He'll be eas­ier to kill if he's been Kissed first!” There were nois­es of agree­ment. Dread filled Har­ry: To re­pel de­men­tors they would have to pro­duce Pa­tronus­es which would give them away im­me­di­ate­ly.

“We're go­ing to have to try to Dis­ap­pa­rate, Har­ry!” Hermione whis­pered.

Even as she said it, he felt the un­nat­ural cold be­ing spread over the street. Light was sucked from the en­vi­ron­ment right up to the stars, which van­ished. In the pitch black­ness, he felt Hermione take hold of his arm and to­geth­er, they turned on the spot.

The air through which they need­ed to move, seemed to have be­come sol­id: They could not

Dis­ap­pa­rate; the Death Eaters had cast their charms well. The cold was bit­ing deep­er and deep­er in­to Har­ry's flesh. He, Ron and Hermione re­treat­ed down the side street, grop­ing their way along the wall try­ing not to make a sound. Then, around the cor­ner, glid­ing noise­less­ly, came de­men­tors, ten or more of them, vis­ible be­cause they were of a denser dark­ness than their sur­round­ings, with their black cloaks and their scabbed and rot­ting hands. Could they sense fear in the vicin­ity? Har­ry was sure of it: They seemed to be com­ing more quick­ly now, tak­ing those drag­ging, rat­tling breaths he de­test­ed, tast­ing de­spair in the air, clos­ing in -

He raised his wand: He could not, would not suf­fer the De­men­tor's Kiss, what­ev­er hap­pened af­ter­ward. It was of Ron and Hermione that he thought as he whis­pered “Ex­pec­to Pa­tron­um!”

The sil­ver stag burst from his wand and charged: The De­men­tors scat­tered and there was a tri­umphant yell from some­where out of sight “It's him, down there, down there, I saw his Pa­tronus, it was a stag!” The De­men­tors have re­treat­ed, the stars were pop­ping out again and the foot­steps of the Death Eaters were be­com­ing loud­er; but be­fore Har­ry in his pan­ic could de­cide what to do, there was a grind­ing of bolts near­by, a door opened on the left-​side of the nar­row street, and a rough voice said: “Pot­ter, in here, quick!” He obeyed with­out hes­ita­tion, the three of them hur­ried through the open door­way.

“Up­stairs, keep the Cloak on, keep qui­et!” mut­tered a tall fig­ure, pass­ing them on his way in­to the street and slammed the door be­hind him. Har­ry had had no idea where they were, but now he saw, by the stut­ter­ing light of a sin­gle can­dle, the grub­by, saw­dust bar of the Hog's Head Inn. They ran be­hind the counter and through a sec­ond door­way, which led to a trick­ery wood­en stair­case, that they climbed as fast as they could. The stairs opened in­to a sit­ting room with a durable car­pet and a small fire­place, above which hung a sin­gle large oil paint­ing of a blonde girl who gazed out at the room with a kind of a va­cant sweet­ness. Shouts reached from the streets be­low. Still wear­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak on, they hur­ried to­ward the grimy win­dow and looked down. Their sav­ior, whom Har­ry now rec­og­nized as the Hog's Head's bar­man, was the on­ly per­son not wear­ing a hood.

“So what?” he was bel­low­ing in­to one of the hood­ed faces. “So what? You send de­men­tors down my street, I'll send a Pa­tronus back at'em! I'm not hav­ing'em near me, I've told you that. I'm not hav­ing it!”

“That wasn't your Pa­tronus,” said a Death Eater. “That was a stag. It was Pot­ter's!”

“Stag!” roared the bar­man, and he pulled out a wand. “Stag! You id­iot - Ex­pec­to Pa­tron­um!”

Some­thing huge and horned erupt­ed from the wand. Head down, it charged to­ward the High Street, and out of sight. “That's not what I saw” said the Death Eater, though was less cer­tain­ly

“Cur­few's been bro­ken, you heard the noise,” one of his com­pan­ions told the bar­man. “Some­one was out on the streets against reg­ula­tions - ” “If I want to put my cat out, I will, and be damned to your cur­few!” “You set off the Cat­er­waul­ing Charm?” "What if I did? Go­ing to cart me off to Azk­aban? Kill me for stick­ing my nose out my own front door? Do it, then, if you want to! But I hope for your sakes you haven't pressed your lit­tle Dark Marks, and sum­moned him. He's

not go­ing to like be­ing called here, for me and my old cat, is he, now?“ ”Don't wor­ry about us.“ said one of the Death Eaters, ”wor­ry about your­self, break­ing cur­few!“ ”And where will you lot traf­fic po­tions and poi­sons when my pub's closed down? What will hap­pen to your lit­tle side­lines then?"

“Are you threat­en­ing - ?”

“I keep my mouth shut, it's why you come here, isn't it?”

“I still say I saw a stag Pa­tronus!” shout­ed the first Death Eater.

“Stag?” roared the bar­man. “It's a goat, id­iot!”

“All right, we made a mis­take,” said the sec­ond Death Eater. “Break cur­few again and we won't be so le­nient!”

The Death Eaters strode back to­wards the High Street. Hermione moaned with re­lief, wove out from un­der the Cloak, and sat down on a wob­ble-​legged chair. Har­ry drew the cur­tains then pulled the Cloak off him­self and Ron. They could hear the bar­man down be­low, re­bolt­ing the door of the bar, then climb­ing the stairs.

Har­ry's at­ten­tion was caught by some­thing on the man­tel­piece: a small, rect­an­gu­lar mir­ror, propped on top of it,

right be­neath the por­trait of the girl.

The bar­man en­tered the room.

“You bloody fools,” he said gruffly, look­ing from one to the oth­er of them. “What were you think­ing, com­ing here?”

“Thank you,” said Har­ry. “You can't thank you enough. You saved our lives!”

The bar­man grunt­ed. Har­ry ap­proached him look­ing up in­to the face: try­ing to see past the long, stringy, wire-​gray hair

beard. He wore spec­ta­cles. Be­hind the dirty lens­es, the eyes were a pierc­ing, bril­liant blue.

“It's your eye I've been see­ing in the mir­ror.”

There was a si­lence in the room. Har­ry and the bar­man looked at each oth­er.

“You sent Dob­by.”

The bar­man nod­ded and looked around for the elf.

“Thought he'd be with you. Where've you left him? can.”

“You don't un­der­stand. There isn't much time. We've got to get in­to the cas­tle. Dum­ble­dore - I mean, your broth­er - want­ed us - ”

The fire­light made the grimy lens­es of Aber­forth's glass­es mo­men­tar­ily opaque, a bright flat white, and Har­ry re­mem­bered the blind eyes of the gi­ant spi­der, Ar­agog.

“My broth­er Al­bus want­ed a lot of things,” said Aber­forth, “and peo­ple had a habit of get­ting hurt while he was car­ry­ing out his grand plans. You get away from this school, Pot­ter, and out of the coun­try if you can. For­get my broth­er and his clever schemes. He's gone where none of this can hurt him, and you don't owe him any­thing.”

“You don't un­der­stand.” said Har­ry again.

“Oh, don't I? said Aber­forth qui­et­ly. ”You don't think I un­der­stood my own broth­er? Think you know Al­bus bet­ter than I did?"

“I didn't mean that,” said Har­ry, whose brain felt slug­gish with ex­haus­tion and from the sur­feit of food and wine.

“It's... he left me a job.”

“Did he now?” said Aber­forth. “Nice job, I hope? Pleas­ant? Easy? Sort of thing you'd ex­pect an un­qual­ified wiz­ard kid to be able to do with­out over­stretch­ing them­selves?”

Ron gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione was look­ing strained.

“I-​it's not easy, no,” said Har­ry. “But I've got to - ”

“Got to? Why got to? He's dead, isn't he?” said Aber­forth rough­ly. "Let it go, boy, be­fore you fol­low him!

Save your­self!"

“I can't.”

“Why not?”

“I - ” Har­ry felt over­whelmed; he could not ex­plain, so he took the of­fen­sive in­stead. "But you're fight­ing too,

you're in the Or­der of the Phoenix - "

“I was,” said Aber­forth. "The Or­der of the Phoenix is fin­ished. You-​Know-​Who's won, it's over, and any­one who's pre­tend­ing dif­fer­ent's kid­ding them­selves. It'll nev­er be safe for you here, Pot­ter, he wants you too bad­ly.

So go abroad, go in­to hid­ing, save your­self. Best take these two with you." He jerked a thumb at Ron and Hermione.

“They'll be in dan­ger long as they live now ev­ery­one knows they've been work­ing with you.”

“I can't leave,” said Har­ry. “I've got a job - ”

“Give it to some­one else!”

“I can't. It's got to be me, Dum­ble­dore ex­plained it all - ”

“Oh, did he now? And did he tell you ev­ery­thing, was he hon­est with you?”

Har­ry want­ed him with all his heart to say “Yes,” but some­how the sim­ple word would not rise to his lips,

Aber­forth seemed to know what he was think­ing.

“I knew my broth­er, Pot­ter. He learned se­cre­cy at our moth­er's knee. Se­crets and lies, that's how we grew up, and Al­bus... he was a nat­ural.”

The old man's eyes trav­eled to the paint­ing of the girl over the man­tel­piece. It was, now Har­ry looked around prop­er­ly, the on­ly pic­ture in the room. There was no pho­to­graph of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, nor of any­one else.

“Mr. Dum­ble­dore” said Hermione rather timid­ly. "Is that your sis­ter? Ar­iana?

“Yes.” said Aber­forth terse­ly. “Been read­ing Ri­ta Skeeter, have you, mis­sy?”

Even by the rosy light of the fire it was clear that Hermione had turned red.

“El­phias Doge men­tioned her to us,” said Har­ry, try­ing to spare Hermione.

“That old berk,” mut­tered Aber­forth, tak­ing an­oth­er swig of mead. “Thought the sun shone out of my broth­er's ev­ery of­fice, he did. Well, so did plen­ty of peo­ple, you three in­clud­ed, by the looks of it.” Har­ry kept qui­et. He did not want to ex­press the doubts and un­cer­tain­ties about Dum­ble­dore that had rid­dled him for months now. He had made his choice while he dug Dob­by's grave, he had de­cid­ed to con­tin­ue along the wind­ing, dan­ger­ous path in­di­cat­ed for him by Al­bus Dum­ble­dore, to ac­cept that he had not been told ev­ery­thing that he want­ed to know, but sim­ply to trust. He had no de­sire to doubt again; he did not want o hear any­thing that would de­flect him from his pur­pose. He met Aber­forth's gaze, which was so strik­ing­ly like his broth­ers': The bright blue eyes gave the same im­pres­sion that they were X-​ray­ing the ob­ject of their scruti­ny, and Har­ry thought that Aber­forth knew what he was think­ing and de­spised him for it.

“Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore cared about Har­ry, very much,” said Hermione in a low voice.

“Did he now?” said Aber­forth. “Fun­ny thing how many of the peo­ple my broth­er cared about very much end­ed up in a worse state than if he'd left 'em well alone.”

“What do you mean?” asked Hermione breath­less­ly.

“Nev­er you mind,” said Aber­forth.

“But that's a re­al­ly se­ri­ous thing to say!” said Hermione. “Are you - are you talk­ing about your sis­ter?”

Aber­forth glared at her: His lips moved as if he were chew­ing the words he was hold­ing back. Then he burstin­to speech.

"When my sis­ter was six years old, she was at­tacked, by three Mug­gle boys. They'd seen her do­ing mag­ic,

spy­ing through the back gar­den hedge: She was a kid, she couldn't con­trol it, no witch or wiz­ard can at that age. What they saw, scared them, I ex­pect. They forced their way through the hedge, and when she couldn't show them the trick, they got a bit car­ried away try­ing to stop the lit­tle freak do­ing it." Hermione's eyes were huge in the fire­light; Ron looked slight­ly sick. Aber­forth stood up, tall as Al­bus, and sud­den­ly ter­ri­ble in his anger and the in­ten­si­ty of his pain.

"It de­stroyed her, what they did: She was nev­er right again. She wouldn't use mag­ic, but she couldn't get rid of it; it turned in­ward and drove her mad, it ex­plod­ed out of her when she couldn't con­trol it, and at times she was strange and dan­ger­ous. But most­ly she was sweet and scared and harm­less.

“And my fa­ther went af­ter the bas­tards that did it,” said Aber­forth, "and at­tacked them. And they locked him up in Azk­aban for it. He nev­er said why he'd done it, be­cause the Min­istry had known what Ar­iana had be­come, she'd have been locked up in St. Mun­go's for good. They'd have seen her as a se­ri­ous threat to the In­ter­na­tion­al Statute of Se­cre­cy, un­bal­anced like she was, with mag­ic ex­plod­ing out of her at mo­ments when she couldn't keep it in any longer.

"We had to keep her safe and qui­et. We moved house, put it about she was ill, and my moth­er looked af­ter her, and tried to keep her calm and hap­py.

“I was her favourite,” he said, and as he said it, a grub­by school­boy seemed to look out through Aber­forth's

wrin­kles and wran­gled beard. "Not Al­bus, he was al­ways up in his bed­room when he was home, read­ing his books

and count­ing his prizes, keep­ing up with his cor­re­spon­dence with “the most no­table mag­ical names of the day,”

Aber­forth suc­cored. "He didn't want to be both­ered with her. She liked me best. I could get her to eat when she wouldn't do it for my moth­er, I could calm her down, when she was in one of her rages, and when she was qui­et, she used to help me feed the goats.

“Then, when she was four­teen... See, I wasn't there.” said Aber­forth. “If I'd been there, I could have calmed her down. She had one of her rages, and my moth­er wasn't as young as she was, and . . . it was an ac­ci­dent. Ar­iana couldn't con­trol it. But my moth­er was killed.”

Har­ry felt a hor­ri­ble mix­ture of pity and re­pul­sion; he did not want to hear any more, but Aber­forth kept talk­ing, and Har­ry won­dered how long it had been since he had spo­ken about this; whether, in fact, he had ev­er spo­ken about it.

“So that put paid to Al­bus's trip round the world with lit­tle Doge. The pair of 'em came home for my moth­er's fu­ner­al and then Doge went off on his own, and Al­bus set­tled down as head of the fam­ily. Ha!” Aber­forth spat in­to the fire.

"I'd have looked af­ter her, I told him so, I didn't care about school, I'd have stayed home and done it.

He told me I had to fin­ish my ed­uca­tion and he'd take over from my moth­er. Bit of a come­down for Mr. Bril­liant, there's no prizes for look­ing af­ter your half-​mad sis­ter, stop­ping her blow­ing up the house ev­ery oth­er day. But he did all right for a few weeks . . . till he came."

And now a pos­itive­ly dan­ger­ous look crept over Aber­forth’s face. "Grindel­wald. And at last, my broth­er had an equal to talk to some­one just as bright and tal­ent­ed he was. And look­ing af­ter Ar­iana took a back­seat then, while they were hatch­ing all their plans for a new Wiz­ard­ing or­der and look­ing for Hal­lows, and what­ev­er else it was they were so in­ter­est­ed in. Grand plans for the ben­efit of all Wiz­ard­kind, and if one young girl ne­glect­ed, what did that mat­ter, when Al­bus was work­ing for the greater good?

“But af­ter a few weeks of it, I'd had enough, I had. It was near­ly time for me to go hack to Hog­warts, so I told 'em, both of 'em, face-​to-​face, like I am to you, now,” and Aber­forth looked down­ward Har­ry, and it took a lit­tle imag­ina­tion to see him as a teenag­er, wiry and an­gry, con­fronting his el­der broth­er. "I told him, you'd bet­ter give it up now. You can't move her,

she's in no fit state, you can't take her with you, wher­ev­er it is you're plan­ning to go, when you're mak­ing your clever speech­es, try­ing to whip your­selves up a fol­low­ing. He didn't like that.“ said Aber­forth, and his eyes were briefly oc­clud­ed by the fire­flight on the lens­es of his glass­es: They turned white and blind again. ”Grindel­wald didn't like that at all. He got an­gry. He told me what a stupid lit­tle boy I was, try­ing to stand in the way of him and my bril­liant broth­er . . . Didn't I un­der­stand, my poor sis­ter wouldn't have to be hid­den once they'd changed the world, and led the wiz­ards out of hid­ing, and taught the Mug­gles their place? “And there was an ar­gu­ment . . . and I pulled my wand, and he pulled out his, and I had the Cru­cia­tus Curse used on me by my broth­er's best friend - and Al­bus was try­ing to stop him, and then all three of us were du­el­ing, and the flash­ing lights and the bangs set her off, she couldn't stand it - ”

The col­or was drain­ing from Aber­forth's face as though he had suf­fered a mor­tal wound.

“ - and I think she want­ed to help, but she didn't re­al­ly know what she was do­ing, and I don't know which of us did it, it could have been any of us - and she was dead.”

His voice broke on the last word and he dropped down in­to the near­est chair. Hermione's face was wet with tears, and Ron was al­most as pale as Aber­forth. Har­ry felt noth­ing but re­vul­sion: He wished he had not heard it, wished he could wash is mind clean of it.

“I'm so . . . I'm so sor­ry,” Hermione whis­pered.

“Gone,” croaked Aber­forth. “Gone for­ev­er.”

He wiped his nose on hiss cuff and cleared his throat.

“ 'Course, Grindel­wald scarpered. He had a bit of a track record al­ready, back in his own coun­try, and he didn't want Ar­iana set to his ac­count too. And Al­bus was free, wasn't he? Free of the bur­den of his sis­ter, free to be­come the great­est wiz­ard of the - ”

“He was nev­er free,” said Har­ry.

“I beg your par­don?” said Aber­forth.

“Nev­er,” said Har­ry. “The night that your broth­er died, he drank a po­tion that drove him out of his mind. He start­ed scream­ing, plead­ing with some­one who wasn't there. 'Don't hurt them, please . . . hurt me in­stead.' ” Ron and Hermione were star­ing at Har­ry. He had nev­er gone in­to de­tails about what had hap­pened on the is­land on the lake:

The events that had tak­en place af­ter he and Dum­ble­dore had re­turned to Hog­warts had eclipsed it so thor­ough­ly.

“He thought he was back there with you and Grindel­wald, I know he did,” said Har­ry, re­mem­ber­ing Dum­ble­dore whis­per­ing, plead­ing.

“He thought he was watch­ing Grindel­wald hurt­ing you and Ar­iana . . . It was tor­ture to him, if you'd seen him then, you wouldn't say he was free.”

Aber­forth seemed lost in con­tem­pla­tion of his own knot­ted and veined hands. Af­ter a long pause he said. "How can you be sure, Pot­ter,

that my broth­er wasn't more in­ter­est­ed in the greater good than in you? How can you be sure you aren't dis­pens­able, just like my lit­tle sis­ter?"

A shard of ice seemed to pierce Har­ry's heart.

“I don't be­lieve it. Dum­ble­dore loved Har­ry,” said Hermione.

“Why didn't he tell him to hide, then? shot back Aber­forth. ”Why didn't he say to him, 'Take care of your­self, here's how to sur­vive' ?"

“Be­cause,” said Har­ry be­fore Hermione could an­swer, "some­times you've got to think about more than your own safe­ty! Some­times

you've got to think about the greater good! This is war!"

“You're sev­en­teen, boy!”

“I'm of age, and I'm go­ing to keep fight­ing even if you've giv­en up!”

“Who says I've giv­en up?”

“The Or­der of the Phoenix is fin­ished,” Har­ry re­peat­ed, “You-​Know-​Who's won, it's over, and any­one who's pre­tend­ing dif­fer­ent's kid­ding them­selves.”

“I don't say I like it, but it's the truth!”

“No, it isn't.” said Har­ry. “Your broth­er knew how to fin­ish You-​Know-​Who and he passed the knowl­edge on to me. I'm go­ing to keep go­ing un­til I suc­ceed - or I die. Don't think I don't know how this might end. I've known it for years.”

He wait­ed for Aber­forth to jeer or to ar­gue, but he did not. He mere­ly moved.

“We need to get in­to Hog­warts,” said Har­ry again. “If you can't help us, we'll wait till day­break, leave you in peace, and try to find a way in our­selves. If you can help us - well, now would be a great time to men­tion it.”

Aber­forth re­mained fixed in his chair, gaz­ing at Har­ry with the eye, that were so ex­traor­di­nar­ily like his broth­er's. At last he cleared his throat, got to his feet, walked around the lit­tle ta­ble, and ap­proached the por­trait of Ar­iana.

“You know what to do,” he said.

She smiled, turned, and walked away, not as peo­ple in por­traits usu­al­ly did, one of the sides of their frames, but along what seemed to be a long tun­nel paint­ed be­hind her. They watched her slight fig­ure re­treat­ing un­til fi­nal­ly she was swal­lowed by the dark­ness.

“Er - what - ?” be­gan Ron.

“There's on­ly one way in now,” said Aber­forth. "You must know they've got all the old se­cret pas­sage­ways cov­ered at both ends, de­men­tors all around the bound­ary walls, reg­ular pa­trols in­side the school from what my sources tell me. The place has nev­er been so heav­ily guard­ed.

How you ex­pect to do any­thing once you get in­side it, with Snape in charge and the Car­rows as his deputies. . . well, that's your look­out, isn't it?

You say you're pre­pared to die."

“But what . . . ?” said Hermione, frown­ing at Ar­iana's pic­ture.

A tiny white dot reap­peared at the end of the paint­ed tun­nel, and now Ar­iana was walk­ing back to­ward them, grow­ing big­ger and big­ger

as she came. But there was some­body else with her now, some­one taller than she was, who was limp­ing along, look­ing ex­cit­ed. His hair was longer than Har­ry had ev­er seen. He ap­peared and torn. Larg­er and larg­er the two fig­ures grew, un­til on­ly their heads and shoul­ders filled the por­trait.

Then the whole thing swang for­ward on the wall like a lit­tle door, and the en­trance to a re­al tun­nel was re­vealed. And our of it, his hair over­grown, his face cut, his robes ripped, clam­bered the re­al Neville Long­bot­tom, who gave a roar of de­light, leapt down from the man­tel­piece and yelled.

“I knew you'd come! I knew it, Har­ry!”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE


THE LOST DI­ADEM



“Neville -- what the -- how -- ?”

But Neville had spot­ted Ron and Hermione, and with yells of de­light was hug­ging them too. The longer Har­ry looked at Neville, the worse he ap­peared: One of his eyes was swollen yel­low and pur­ple, there were gouge marks on his face, and his gen­er­al air of un­kempt­ness sug­gest­ed that he had been liv­ing enough. Nev­er­the­less, his bat­tered vis­age shone with hap­pi­ness as he let go of Hermione and said again, “I knew you’d come! Kept telling Sea­mus it was a mat­ter of time!”

“Neville, what’s hap­pened to you?”

“What? This?” Neville dis­missed his in­juries with a shake of the head. “This is noth­ing, Sea­mus is worse. You’ll see. Shall we get go­ing then? Oh,” he turned to Aber­forth, “Ab, there might be a cou­ple more peo­ple no the way.”

“Cou­ple more?” re­peat­ed Aber­forth omi­nous­ly. “What d’you mean, a cou­ple more, Long­bot­tom? There’s a cur­few and a Camwauld­ing Charm on the whole vil­lage!”

“I know, that’s why they’ll be Ap­pa­rat­ing di­rect­ly in­to the bar,” said Neville. “Just send them down the pas­sage when they get here, will you? Thanks a lot.”

Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her to climb up on­to the man­tel­piece and in­to the tun­nel; Ron fol­lowed, then Neville. Har­ry ad­dressed Aber­forth.

“I don’t know how to thank you. You’ve saved our lives twice.”

“Look af­ter ‘em, then,” said Aber­forth gruffly. “I might not be able to save ‘em a third time.”

Har­ry cham­bered up on­to the man­tel­piece and through the hole be­hind Ar­iana’s por­trait. There were smooth stone steps on the oth­er side: It looked as though the pas­sage­way had been there for years. Brass lamps hung from the walls and the earthy floor was worn and smooth; as they walked, their shad­ows rip­pled, fan­like, across the wall.

“How long’s this been here?” Ron asked as they set off. “It isn’t on the Ma­raud­er’s Map, is it Har­ry? I thought there were on­ly sev­en pas­sages in and out of school?”

“They sealed off all of those be­fore the start of the year,” said Neville. “There’s no chance of get­ting through any of them now, not with the curs­es over the en­trances and Death Eaters and de­men­tors wait­ing at the ex­its.” He start­ed walk­ing back­ward, beam­ing, drink­ing them in. “Nev­er mind that stuff … Is it true? Did you break in­to Gringotts? Did you es­cape on a drag­on? It’s ev­ery­where, ev­ery­one’s talk­ing about it, Ter­ry Boot got beat­en up by Car­row for yelling about it in the Great Hall at din­ner!”

“Yeah, it’s true,” said Har­ry.

Neville laughed glee­ful­ly.

“What did you do with the drag­on?”

“Re­leased it in­to the wild,” said Ron. “Hermione was all for keep­ing it as a pet“

“Don’t ex­ag­ger­ate, Ron –“

“But what have you been do­ing? Peo­ple have been say­ing you’ve just been on the run, Har­ry, but I don’t think so. I think you’ve been up to some­thing.”

“You’re right,” said Har­ry, “but tell us about Hog­warts, Neville, we haven’t heard any­thing.”

“It’s been …. Well, it’s not re­al­ly like Hog­warts any­more,” said Neville, the smile fad­ing from his face as he spoke. “Do you know about the Car­rows?”

“Those two Death Eaters who teach here?”

“They do more than teach,” said Neville. “They’re in charge of all dis­ci­pline. They like pun­ish­ment, the Car­rows.”

“Like Um­bridge?”

“Nah, they make her look tame. The oth­er teach­ers are all sup­posed to re­fer us to the Car­rows if we do any­thing wrong. They don’t, though, if they can avoid it. You can tell they all hate them as much as we do.”

“Amy­cus, the bloke, he teach­es what used to be De­fense Against the Dark Arts, ex­cept now it’s just the Dark Arts. We’re sup­posed to prac­tice the Cru­cia­tus Curse on peo­ple who’ve earned de­ten­tions – “

“What?”

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione’s unit­ed voic­es echoed up and down the pas­sage.

“Yeah,” said Neville. “That’s how I got this one,” he point­ed at a par­tic­ular­ly deep gash in his cheek, “I re­fused to do it. Some peo­ple are in­to it, though; Crabbe and Goyle love it. First time they’ve ev­er been top in any­thing, I ex­pect.”

“Alec­to, Amy­cus’s sis­ter, teach­es Mug­gle Stud­ies, which is com­pul­so­ry for ev­ery­one. We’ve all got to lis­ten to her ex­plain how Mug­gles are like an­imals, stupid and dirty, and how they drive wiz­ards in­to hid­ing by be­ing vi­cious to­ward them, and how the nat­ural or­der is be­ing reestab­lished. I got this one,” he in­di­cat­ed an­oth­er slash to his face, “for ask­ing her how much Mug­gle blood she and her broth­er have got.”

“Blimey, Neville,” said Ron, “there’s a time and a place for get­ting a smart mouth.”

“You didn’t see her,” said Neville. “You wouldn’t have stood it ei­ther. The thing is, it helps when peo­ple stand up to them, it gives ev­ery­one hope. I used to no­tice that when you did it, Har­ry.”

“But they’ve used you as a knife sharp­en­er,” said Ron, wind­ing slight­ly as they passed a lamp and Neville’s in­juries were thrown in­to even greater re­lief.

Neville shrugged.

“Doesn’t mat­ter. They don’t want to spill too much pure blood, so they’ll tor­ture us a bit if we’re mouthy but they won’t ac­tu­al­ly kill us.”

Har­ry did not know what was worse, the things that Neville was say­ing or the mat­ter-​of-​fact tone in which he said them.

“The on­ly peo­ple in re­al dan­ger are the ones whose friends and rel­atives on the out­side are giv­ing trou­ble. They get tak­en hostage. Old Xeno Love­good was get­ting a bit too out­spo­ken in The Quib­bler, so they dragged Lu­na off the train on the way back for Christ­mas.”

“Neville, she’s all right, we’ve seen her –“

“Yeah, I know, she man­aged to get a mes­sage to me.”

From his pock­et he pulled a gold­en coin, and Har­ry rec­og­nized it as one of the fake Galleons that Dum­ble­dore’s Army had used to send one an­oth­er mes­sages.

“These have been great,” said Neville, beam­ing at Hermione. “The Car­rows nev­er rum­bled how we were com­mu­ni­cat­ing, it drove them mad. We used to sneak out at night and put graf­fi­ti on the walls: Dum­ble­dore’s Army, Still Re­cruit­ing, stuff like that. Snape hat­ed it.”

“You used to?” said Har­ry, who had no­ticed the past tense.

“Well, it got more dif­fi­cult as time went one,” said Neville. “We lost Lu­na at Christ­mas, and Gin­ny nev­er came back af­ter East­er, and the three of us were sort of the lead­ers. The Car­rows seemed to know I was be­hind a lot of it, so they start­ed com­ing down on me hard, and then Michael Cor­ner went and got caught re­leas­ing a first-​year they’d chained up, and they tor­tured him pret­ty bad­ly. That scared peo­ple off.”

“No kid­ding,” mut­tered Ron, as the pas­sage be­gan to slope up­ward.

“Yeah, well, I couldn’t ask peo­ple to go through what Michael did, so we dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fight­ing, do­ing un­der­ground stuff, right up un­til a cou­ple of weeks ago. That’s when they de­cid­ed there was on­ly one way to stop me, I sup­pose, and they went for Gran.”

“They what?” said Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione to­geth­er.

“Yeah,” said Neville, pant­ing a lit­tle now, be­cause the pas­sage was climb­ing so steeply, “well, you can see their think­ing. It had worked re­al­ly well, kid­nap­ping kids to force their rel­atives to be­have. I s’pose it was on­ly a mat­ter of time be­fore they did it the oth­er way around. Thing was,” he faced them, and Har­ry was as­ton­ished to see that he was grin­ning, “they bit off a bit more than they could chew with Gran. Lit­tle old witch liv­ing alone, they prob­ably thought hey didn’t need to send any­one par­tic­ular­ly pow­er­ful. Any­way,” Neville laughed, “Dawlish is still in St. Mun­go’s and Gran’s on the run. She sent me a let­ter,” he clapped a hand to the breast pock­et of his robes, “telling me she was proud of me, that I’m my par­ent’s son, and to keep it up.”

“Cool,” said Ron.

“Yea,” said Neville hap­pi­ly. “On­ly thing was, once they re­al­ized they had no hold over me, they de­cid­ed Hog­warts could do with­out me af­ter all. I don’t know whether they were plan­ning to kill me or send me to Azk­aban, ei­ther way, I knew it was time to dis­ap­pear.”

“But,” said Ron, look­ing thor­ough­ly con­fused, “aren’t – aren’t we head­ing straight back for Hog­warts?”

“’Course,” said Neville. “You’ll see. We’re here.”

They turned a cor­ner and there ahead of them was the end of the pas­sage. An­oth­er short flight of steps led to a door just like the one hid­den be­hind Ar­iana’s por­trait. Neville pushed it open and climbed through. As Har­ry fol­lowed, he heard Neville call out for un­seen peo­ple:

“Look who it is! Didn’t I tell you?”

As Har­ry emerged in­to the room be­hind the pas­sage, there were sev­er­al screams and yells: “HAR­RY!” “It’s Pot­ter, it’s POT­TER!” “Ron!” “Hermione!”

He had a con­fused im­pres­sion of col­ored hang­ings, of lamps and many faces. The next mo­ment, he, Ron, and Hermione were en­gulfed, hugged, pound­ed on the back, their hair ruf­fled, their hands shak­en, by what seemed to be more than twen­ty peo­ple. They might have just won a Quid­ditch fi­nal.

“Okay, okay, calm down!” Neville called, and as the crowd backed away, Har­ry was able to take in their sur­round­ings.

He did not rec­og­nize the dorm at all. It was enor­mous, and looked rather like the in­te­ri­or of a par­tic­ular­ly sump­tu­ous tree house, or per­haps a gi­gan­tic ship’s cab­in. Mul­ti­col­ored ham­mocks were strung from the ceil­ing and from the bal­cony that ran around the dark wood-​pan­eled and win­dow­less walls, which were cov­ered in bright tapestry hang­ings. Har­ry saw the gold Gryffind­or li­on, em­bla­zoned on scar­let; the black bad­ger of Huf­flepuff, set against yel­low; and the bronze ea­gle of Raven­claw, on blue. The sil­ver and green of Slytherin alone were ab­sent. There were bulging book­cas­es, a few broom­sticks propped against the walls, and in the cor­ner, a large wood-​cased wire­less.

“Where are we?”

“Room of Re­quire­ment, of course!” said Neville. “Sur­passed it­self, hasn’t it? The Car­rows were chas­ing me, and I knew I had just one chance for a hide­out: I man­aged to get through the door and this is what I found! Well, it wasn’t ex­act­ly like this when I ar­rived, it was a load small­er, there was on­ly one ham­mock and just Gryffind­or hang­ings. But it’s ex­pand­ed as more and more of the D.A. have ar­rived.”

“And the Car­rows can’t get in?” asked Har­ry, look­ing around for the door.

“No,” said Sea­mus Finni­gan, whom Har­ry had not rec­og­nized un­til he spoke: Sea­mus’s face was bruised and puffy. “It’s a prop­er hide­out, as long as one of us stays in here, they can’t get at us, the door won’t open. It’s all down to Neville. He re­al­ly gets this room. You’ve got to ask for ex­act­ly what you need – like, “I don’t want any Car­row sup­port­ers to be able to get in’ – and it’ll do it for you! You’ve just got to make sure you close the loop­holes. Neville’s the man!”

“It’s quite straight­for­ward, re­al­ly,” said Neville mod­est­ly. “I’d been in here about a day and a half, and get­ting re­al­ly hun­gry, and wish­ing I could get some­thing to eat, and that’s when the pas­sage to Hog’s Head opened up. I went through it and met Aber­forth. He’s been pro­vid­ing us with food, be­cause for some rea­son, that’s the one thing the room doesn’t re­al­ly do.

“Yeah, well, food’s one of the five ex­cep­tions to Gamp’s Law of El­emen­tal Trans­fig­ura­tion,” said Ron to gen­er­al as­ton­ish­ment.

“So we’ve been hid­ing out here for near­ly two weeks,” said Sea­mus, “and it just makes more ham­mocks ev­ery time we need room, and it even sprout­ed a pret­ty good bath­room once girls start­ed turn­ing up – “

“—and thought they’d quite like to wash, yes,” sup­plied Laven­der Brown, whom Har­ry had not no­ticed un­til that point. Now that he looked around prop­er­ly, he rec­og­nized many fa­mil­iar faces. Both Patil twins were there, as were Ter­ry Boot, Ernie Macmil­lan, An­tho­ny Gold­stein, and Michael Cor­ner.

“Tell us what you’ve been up to, though,” said Ernie. “There’ve been so many ru­mors, we’ve been try­ing to keep up with you on Pot­ter­watch.” He point­ed at the wire­less. “You didn’t break in­to Gringotts?”

“They did!” said Neville. “And the drag­on’s true too!”

There was a smat­ter­ing of ap­plause and a few whoops; Ron took a bow.

“What were you af­ter?” asked Sea­mus ea­ger­ly.

Be­fore any of them could par­ry the ques­tion with one of their own, Har­ry felt a ter­ri­ble, scorch­ing pain in the light­ning scar. As he turned his back hasti­ly on the cu­ri­ous and de­light­ed faces, the Room of Re­quire­ment van­ished, and he was stand­ing in­side a ru­ined stone shack, and the rot­ting floor­boards were ripped apart at his feet, a dis­in­terred gold­en box lay open and emp­ty be­side the hole, and Volde­mort’s scream of fury vi­brat­ed in­side his head.

With an enor­mous ef­fort he pulled out of Volde­mort’s mind again, back to where he stood, sway­ing, in the Room of Re­quire­ment, sweat pour­ing from his face and Ron hold­ing him up.

“Are you all right, Har­ry?” Neville was say­ing. “What to sit down? I ex­pect you’re tired, aren’t -- ?”

“No,” said Har­ry. He looked at Ron and Hermione, try­ing to tell them with­out words that Volde­mort had just dis­cov­ered the loss of one of the oth­er Hor­crux­es. Time was run­ning out fast: If Volde­mort chose to vis­it Hog­warts next, they would miss their chance.

“We need to get go­ing,” he said, and their ex­pres­sions told him that they un­der­stood.

“What are we go­ing to do, then, Har­ry?” asked Sea­mus. “What’s the plan?”

“Plan?” re­peat­ed Har­ry. He was ex­er­cis­ing all his willpow­er to pre­vent him­self suc­cumb­ing again to Volde­mort’s rage: His scar was still burn­ing. “Well, there’s some­thing we – Ron, Hermione, and I – need to do, and then we’ll get out of here.”

No­body was laugh­ing or whoop­ing any­more. Neville looked con­fused.

“What d’you mean, ‘get out of here’?”

“We haven’t come back to stay,” said Har­ry, rub­bing his scar, try­ing to soothe the pain. “There’s some­thing im­por­tant we need to do – “

“What is it?”

“I – I can’t tell you.”

There was a rip­ple of mut­ter­ing at this: Neville’s brows con­tract­ed.

“Why can’t you tell us? It’s some­thing to do with fight­ing You-​Know-​Who, right?”

“Well, yeah – “

“Then we’ll help you.”

The oth­er mem­bers of Dum­ble­dore’s Army were nod­ding, some en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, oth­ers solemn­ly. A cou­ple of them rose from their chairs to demon­strate their will­ing­ness for im­me­di­ate ac­tion.

“You don’t un­der­stand,” Har­ry seemed to have said that a lot in the last few hours. “We – we can’t tell you. We’ve got to do it – alone.”

“Why?” asked Neville.

“Be­cause … “ In his des­per­ation to start look­ing for the miss­ing Hor­crux, or at least have a pri­vate dis­cus­sion with Ron and Hermione about where they might com­mence their search. Har­ry found it dif­fi­cult to gath­er his thoughts. His scar was still sear­ing. “Dum­ble­dore left the three of us a job,” he said care­ful­ly, “and we weren’t sup­posed to tell – I mean, he want­ed us to do it, just the three of us.”

“We’re his army,” said Neville. “Dum­ble­dore’s Army. We were all in it to­geth­er, we’ve been keep­ing it go­ing while you three have been off on your own –“

“It hasn’t ex­act­ly been a pic­nic, mate,” said Ron.

“I nev­er said it had, but I don’t see why you can’t trust us. Ev­ery­one in this room’s been fight­ing and they’ve been driv­en in here be­cause the Car­rows were hunt­ing them down. Ev­ery­one in here’s proven they’re loy­al to Dum­ble­dore – loy­al to you.”

“Look,” Har­ry be­gan, with­out know­ing what he was go­ing to say, but it did not mat­ter. The tun­nel door had just opened be­hind him.

“We got your mes­sage, Neville! Hel­lo you three, I thought you must be here!”

It was Lu­na and Dean. Sea­mus gave a great roar of de­light and ran to hug his best friend.

“Hi, ev­ery­one!” said Lu­na hap­pi­ly. “Oh, it’s great to be back!”

“Lu­na,” said Har­ry dis­tract­ed­ly, “what are you do­ing here? How did you -- ?”

“I sent for her,” said Neville, hold­ing up the fake Galleon. “I promised her and Gin­ny that if you turned up I’d let them know. We all thought that if you came back, it would mean rev­olu­tion. That we were go­ing to over­throw Snape and the Car­rows.”

“Of course that’s what it means,” said Lu­na bright­ly. “Isn’t it, Har­ry? We’re go­ing to fight them out of Hog­warts?”

“Lis­ten,” said Har­ry with a ris­ing sense of pan­ic, “I’m sor­ry, but that’s not what we came back for. There’s some­thing we’ve got to do, and then –“

“You’re go­ing to leave us in this mess?” de­mand­ed Michael Cor­net.

“No!” said Ron. “What we’re do­ing will ben­efit ev­ery­one in the end, it’s all about try­ing to get rid of You-​Know-​Who – “

“Then let us help!” said Neville an­gri­ly. “We want to be a part of it!”

There was an­oth­er noise be­hind them, and Har­ry turned. His heart seemed to fall: Gin­ny was now climb­ing through the hole in the wall, close­ly fol­lowed by Fred, George, and Lee Jor­dan. Gin­ny gave Har­ry a ra­di­ant smile: He had for­got­ten, he had nev­er ful­ly ap­pre­ci­at­ed, how beau­ti­ful she was, but he had nev­er been less pleased to see her.

“Aber­forth’s get­ting a bit an­noyed,” said Fred, rais­ing his hand in an­swer to sev­er­al cries of greet­ing. “He wants a kip, and his bar’s turned in­to a rail­way sta­tion.”

Har­ry’s mouth fell open. Right be­hind Lee Jor­dan came Har­ry’s old girl­friend, Cho Chang. She smiled at him.

“I got the mes­sage,” she said, hold­ing up her own fake Galleon and she walked over to sit be­side Michael Cor­ner.

“So what’s the plan, Har­ry?” said George.

“There isn’t one,” said Har­ry, still dis­ori­ent­ed by the sud­den ap­pear­ance of all these peo­ple, un­able to take ev­ery­thing in while his scar was still burn­ing so fierce­ly.

“Just go­ing to make it up as we go along, are we? My fa­vorite kind,” said Fred.

“You’ve got to stop this!” Har­ry told Neville. “What did you call them all back for? This is in­sane – “

“We’re fight­ing, aren’t we?” said Dean, tak­ing out his fake Galleon. “The mes­sage said Har­ry was back, and we were go­ing to fight! I’ll have to get a wand, though –“

“You haven’t got a wand--?” be­gan Sea­mus.

Ron turned sud­den­ly to Har­ry.

“Why can’t they help?”

“What?”

“They can help.” He dropped his voice and said, so that none of them could hear but Hermione, who stood be­tween them, “We don’t know where it is. We’ve got to find it fast. We don’t have to tell them it’s a Hor­crux.”

Har­ry looked from Ron to Hermione, who mur­mured, “I think Ron’s right. We don’t even know what we’re look­ing for, we need them.” And when Har­ry looked un­con­vinced, “You don’t have to do ev­ery­thing alone, Har­ry.”

Har­ry thought fast, his scar still prick­ling, his head threat­en­ing to split again. Dum­ble­dore had warned him against telling any­one but Ron and Hermione about the Hor­crux­es. Se­crets and lies, that’s how we grew up, and Al­bus … he was a nat­ural … Was he turn­ing in­to Dum­ble­dore, keep­ing his se­crets clutched to his chest, afraid to trust? But Dum­ble­dore had trust­ed Snape, and where had that led? To mur­der at the top of the high­est tow­er …

“All right,” he said qui­et­ly to the oth­er two. “Okay,” he called to the room at large, and all noise ceased: Fred and George, who had been crack­ing jokes for the ben­efit of those near­est, fell silent, and all of the looked alert, ex­cit­ed.

“There’s some­thing we need to find,” Har­ry said. “Some­thing – some­thing that’ll help us over­throw You-​Know-​Who. It’s here at Hog­warts, but we don’t know where. It might have be­longed to Raven­claw. Has any­one heard of an ob­ject like that? Has any­one come across some­thing with her ea­gle on it, for in­stance?”

He looked hope­ful­ly to­ward the lit­tle group of Raven­claws, to Pad­ma, Michael, Ter­ry, and Cho, but it was Lu­na who an­swered, perched on the arm of Gin­ny’s chair.

“Well, there’s her lost di­adem. I told you about it, re­mem­ber, Har­ry? The lost di­adem of Raven­claw? Dad­dy’s try­ing to du­pli­cate it.”

“Yeah, but the lost di­adem,” said Michael Cor­ner, rolling his eyes, “is lost, Lu­na. That’s sort of the point.”

“When was it lost?” asked Har­ry.

“Cen­turies ago, they say,” said Cho, and Har­ry’s heart sank. “Pro­fes­sor Flitwick says the di­adem van­ished with Raven­claw her­self. Peo­ple have looked, but,” she ap­pealed to her fel­low Raven­claws. “No­body’s ev­er found a trace of it, have them?”

They all shook their heads.

“Sor­ry, but what is a di­adem?” asked Ron.

“It’s a kind of crown,” said Ter­ry Boot. “Raven­claw’s was sup­posed to have mag­ical prop­er­ties, en­hance the wis­dom of the wear­er.”

“Yes, Dad­dy’s Wrack­spurt siphons – “

But Har­ry cut across Lu­na.

“And none of you have ev­er seen any­thing that looks like it?

They all shook their heads again. Har­ry looked at Ron and Hermione and his own dis­ap­point­ment was mir­rored back at him. An ob­ject that had been lost this long, and ap­par­ent­ly with­out trace, did not seem like a good can­di­date for the Hor­crux hid­den in the cas­tle … Be­fore he could for­mu­late a new ques­tion, how­ev­er, Cho spoke again.

“If you’d like to see what the di­adem’s sup­posed to look like, I could take you up to our com­mon room and show you, Har­ry. Raven­claw’s wear­ing it in her stat­ue.”

Har­ry’s scar scorched again: For a mo­ment the Room of Re­quire­ment swam be­fore him, and he saw in­stead the dark earth soar­ing be­neath him and felt the great snake wrapped around his shoul­ders. Volde­mort was fly­ing again, whether to the un­der­ground lake or here, to the cas­tle, he did not know: Ei­ther way, there was hard­ly any time left.

“He’s on the move,” he said qui­et­ly to Ron and Hermione. He glanced at Cho and then back at them. “Lis­ten, I know it’s not much of a lead, but I’m go­ing to go look at this stat­ue, at least find out what the di­adem looks like. Wait for me here and keep, you know – the oth­er one – safe.”

Cho had got to her feet, but Gin­ny said rather fierce­ly, “No, Lu­na will take Har­ry, won’t you, Lu­na?”

“Oooh, yes, I’d like to,” said Lu­na hap­pi­ly, as Cho sat down again, look­ing dis­ap­point­ed.

“How do we get out?” Har­ry asked Neville.

“Over here.”

“He led Har­ry and Lu­na to a cor­ner, where a small cup­board opened on­to a steep stair­case. “It comes out some­where dif­fer­ent ev­ery day, so they’ve nev­er been able to find it,” he said. “On­ly trou­ble is, we nev­er know ex­act­ly where we’re go­ing to end up when we go out. Be care­ful, Har­ry, they’re al­ways pa­trolling the cor­ri­dors at night.”

“No prob­lem,” said Har­ry. “See you in a bit.”

He and Lu­na hur­ried up the stair­case, which was long, lit by torch­es, and turned cor­ners in un­ex­pect­ed places. At last they reached what ap­peared to be sol­id wall.

“Get un­der here,” Har­ry told Lu­na, pulling out the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and throw­ing it over both of them. He gave the wall a lit­tle push.

It melt­ed away at his touch and they slipped out­side. Har­ry glanced back and saw that it had re­sealed it­self at once. They were stand­ing in a dark cor­ri­dor. Har­ry pulled Lu­na back in­to the shad­ows, fum­bled in the pouch around his neck, and took out the Ma­raud­er’s Map. Hold­ing it close to his nose he searched, and lo­cat­ed his and Lu­na’s dots at last.

“We’re up on the fifth floor,” he whis­pered, watch­ing filch mov­ing away from them, a cor­ri­dor ahead. “Come on, this way.”

They crept off.

Har­ry had prowled the cas­tle at night many times be­fore, but nev­er had his heart ham­mered that fast, nev­er had so much de­pend­ed on his safe pas­sage through the place. Through squares of moon­light up­on the floor, past suits of ar­mor whose hel­mets creaked at the sound of their soft foot­steps, around cor­ners be­yond which who knew what lurked. Har­ry and Lu­na walked, check­ing the Ma­raud­er’s Map when­ev­er light per­mit­ted, twice paus­ing to al­low a ghost to pass with­out draw­ing at­ten­tion to them­selves. He ex­pect­ed to en­counter an ob­sta­cle at any mo­ment; his worst fear was Peeves, and he strained his ears with ev­ery step to hear the first, tell­tale signs of the poltergeist’s ap­proach.

“The way, Har­ry,” breathed Lu­na, pluck­ing his sleeve and pulling him to­ward a spi­ral stair­case.

They climbed in tight, dizzy­ing cir­cles; Har­ry had nev­er been up here be­fore. At last they reached a door. There was no han­dle and no key­hole: noth­ing but a plain ex­panse of aged wood, and a bronze knock­er in the shape an ea­gle.

Lu­na reached out a pale hand, which looked eerie float­ing in midair, un­con­nect­ed to arm or body. She knocked once, and in the si­lence it sound­ed to Har­ry like a can­non blast. At once the beak of the ea­gle opened, but in­stead of a bird’s called, a soft, mu­si­cal voice said, “Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?”

“Hmm … What do you think, Har­ry?” said Lu­na, look­ing thought­ful.

“What? Isn’t there a pass­word?”

“Oh no, you’ve got to an­swer a ques­tion,” said Lu­na.

“What if you get it wrong?”

“Well, you have to wait for some­body who gets it right,” said Lu­na. “That way you learn, you see?”

“Yeah … Trou­ble is, we can’t re­al­ly af­ford to wait for any­one else, Lu­na.”

“No, I see what you mean,” said Lu­na se­ri­ous­ly. “Well then, I think the an­swer is that a cir­cle has no be­gin­ning.”

“Well rea­soned,” said the voice, and the door swung open.

The de­sert­ed Raven­claw com­mon room was a wide, cir­cu­lar room, airi­er than any Har­ry had ev­er seen at Hog­warts. Grace­ful arched win­dows punc­tu­at­ed the walls, which were hung with blue-​and-​bronze silks. By day, the Raven­claws would have a spec­tac­ular view of the sur­round­ing moun­tains. The ceil­ing was domed and paint­ed with stars, which were echoed in the mid­night-​blue car­pet. There were ta­bles, chairs, and book­cas­es, and in a niche op­po­site the door stood a tall stat­ue of white mar­ble.

Har­ry rec­og­nized Rowe­na Raven­claw from the bust he had seen at Lu­na’s house. The stat­ue stood be­side a door that led, he guessed, to dor­mi­to­ries above. He strode right up to the mar­ble wom­an, and she seemed to look back at him with a quizzi­cal half smile on her face, beau­ti­ful yet slight­ly in­tim­idat­ing. A del­icate-​look­ing cir­clet had been re­pro­duced in mar­ble on top of her head. It was not un­like the tiara Fleur had worn at her wed­ding. There were tiny words etched in­to it. Har­ry stepped out from un­der the Cloak and climbed up on­to Raven­claw’s plinth to read them.

“’Wit be­yond mea­sure is man’s great­est trea­sure.’”

“Which makes you pret­ty skint, wit­less,” said a cack­ling voice.

Har­ry whirled around, slipped off the plinth, and land­ed on the floor. The slop­ing-​shoul­dered fig­ure of Alec­to Car­row was stand­ing be­fore him, and even as Har­ry raised his wand, she pressed a stub­by fore­fin­ger to the skull and snake brand­ed on her fore­arm.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THRITY


THE SACK­ING OF SEVERUS SNAPE



The mo­ment her fin­ger touched the Mark, Har­ry's scar burned sav­age­ly, the star­ry room van­ished from sight, and he was stand­ing up­on an out­crop of rock be­neath a cliff, and the sea was wash­ing around him and there was a tri­umph in his heart – They have the boy.

A loud bang brought Har­ry back to where he stood. Dis­ori­ent­ed, he raised his wand, but the witch be­fore him was al­ready falling for­ward; she hit the ground so hard that the glass in the book­cas­es tin­kled.

“I've nev­er Stunned any­one ex­cept in our D.A. lessons,” said Lu­na, sound­ing mild­ly in­ter­est­ed. “That was nois­ier than I though it would be.”

And sure enough, the ceil­ing had be­gun to trem­ble Scur­ry­ing, echo­ing foot­steps were grow­ing loud­er from be­hind the door lead­ing to the dor­mi­to­ries. Lu­na's spell had wo­ken Raven­claws sleep­ing above.

“Lu­na, where are you? I need to get un­der the Cloak!”

Lu­na's feet ap­peared out of nowhere,; he hur­ried to her side and she let the Cloak fall back over them as the door opened and a stream of Raven­claws, all in their night­clothes, flood­ed in­to the com­mon room. there were gasps and cries of sur­prise as they saw Alec­to ly­ing there un­con­scious. Slow­ly they shuf­fled in around her, a sav­age beast that might wake at any mo­ment and at­tack them. Then one brave lit­tle first-​year dart­ed up to her and prod­ded her back­side with his big toe.

“I think she might be dead!” he shout­ed with de­light.

“Oh look,” whis­pered Lu­na hap­pi­ly, as the Raven­claws crowd­ed in around Alec­to. “They're pleased!”

“Yeah... great... “

Har­ry closed his eyes, and as his scar throbbed he chose to sink again in­to Volde­mort's mind.... He was mov­ing along the tun­nel in­to the first cave.... He had cho­sen to make sure of the lock­er be­fore com­ing...but that would not take him long....

There was a rap on the com­mon room door and ev­ery Raven­claw froze. From the oth­er side, Har­ry heard the soft, mu­si­cal voice that is­sued from the ea­gle door knock­er: “Where do Van­ished ob­jects go?”

“I dun­no, do I? Shut it!” snarled an un­couth voice that Har­ry knew was that of the Car­row broth­er , Amy­cus, “Alec­to? Alec­to? Are you there? Have you got him? Open the door!”

The Raven­claws were whis­per­ing amongst them­selves, ter­ri­fied. Then with­out warn­ing, there came a se­ries of loud bangs, as though some­body was fir­ing a gun in­to the door.

“ALEC­TO! If he comes, and we haven't got Pot­ter --d'you want to go the same way as the Mal­foys? AN­SWER ME!” Amy­cus bel­lowed, shak­ing the door for all he was worth, but still it did not open. The Raven­claws were all back­ing away, and some of the most fright­ened be­gan scam­per­ing back up the stair case to their beds. Then, just as Har­ry was won­der­ing whether he ought not to blast open the door and Stun Amy­cus be­fore the Death Eater could do any­thing else, a sec­ond, most fa­mil­iar voice rang out be­yond the door.

“May I ask what you are do­ing, Pro­fes­sor Car­row?”

“Try­ing—to get-- through this damned-- door!” shout­ed Amy­cus. “Go and get Flitwick! Get him to open it, now!”

“But isn't your sis­ter in there” asked Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Didn't Pro­fes­sor Flitwick let her in ear­li­er this evening, at your ur­gent re­quest? Per­haps she could open the door for you? Then you needn't wake up half the cas­tle.”

“She ain't an­swer­ing, you old be­som! You open it! Garn! Do it, now!”

“Cer­tain­ly, if you wish it,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, with aw­ful cold­ness, There was a gen­teel tap of the knock­er and the mu­si­cal voice asked again.

“Where do Van­ished ob­jects go?”

“In­to non be­ing, which is to say, ev­ery­thing,” replied Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Nice­ly phrased,” replied the ea­gle door knock­er, and the door swung open.

The few Raven­claws who had re­mained be­hind sprint­ed for the stairs as Amy­cus burst over the thresh­old, bran­dish­ing his wand. Hunched like his sis­ter, he had a pal­lid, doughy face and tiny eyes, which fell at once on Alec­to, sprawled mo­tion­less on the floor. He let out a yell of fury and fear.

“What've they done, the lit­tle whelps?” he screamed. “I'll Cru­ci­ate the lot of 'em till they tell me who did it---and what's the Dark Lord go­ing to say?” he shrieked, stand­ing over his sis­ter and smack­ing him­self on the fore­head with his fist, “We haven't got him, and they've gone and killed her!”

“She's on­ly Stunned,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall im­pa­tient­ly, who had stooped down to ex­am­ine Alec­to. “She'll be per­fect­ly all right.”

“No she bludger­ing well won't!” bel­lowed Amy­cus. “Not af­ter the Dark Lord gets hold of her! She's gone and sent for him, I felt me Mark burn, and he thinks we've got Pot­ter!”

“'Got Pot­ter'?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall sharply, “What do you mean, 'got Pot­ter'?”

“He told us Pot­ter might try and get in­side Raven­claw Tow­er, and to send for him if we caught him!”

“Why would Har­ry Pot­ter try to get in­side Raven­claw Tow­er! Pot­ter be­longs in my House!”

Be­neath the dis­be­lief and anger, Har­ry heard a lit­tle strain of pride in her voice and af­fec­tion for Min­er­va McG­ona­gall gushed up in­side him.

“We was told he might come in here!” said Car­row. “I dun­no why, do I?”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall stood up and her beady eyes swept the room. Twice they passed right over the place where Har­ry and Lu­na stood.

“We can push it off on the kids,” said Amy­cus, his pig like face sud­den­ly crafty. “Yeah, that's what we'll do. We'll say Alec­to was am­bushed by the kids, them kids up there” -- he looked up at the star­ry ceil­ing to­ward the dor­mi­to­ries -- “ and we'll say they forced her to pres her Mark, and that's why he got a false alarm.... He can pun­ish them. Cou­ple of kids more or less, what's the dif­fer­ence?”

“On­ly the dif­fer­ence be­tween truth and lied, courage and cow­ardice,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who had turned pale, “a dif­fer­ence, in short, which you and your sis­ter seem un­able to ap­pre­ci­ate. But let me make one thing very clear. You are not go­ing to pass off y9our many in­ep­ti­tudes on the stu­dents of Hog­warts. I shall not per­mit it.”

“Ex­cuse me?”

Amy­cus moved for­ward un­til he was of­fen­sive­ly close to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, his face with­in inch­es of hers. She re­fused to back away, but looked down at him as if he were some­thing dis­gust­ing she had found stuck to the lava­to­ry seat.

“It's not a case of what you'll per­mit, Min­er­va McG­ona­gall. Your time's over. It's us what's in charge here now, and you'll back me up or you'll pay the price.”

And he spat in her face.

Har­ry pulled the Cloak off him­self, raised his wand, and said, “You shouldn't have done that.”

As Amy­cus spun around, Har­ry shout­ed, “Cru­cio!”

The Death Eater was lift­ed off his feet. He writhed through the air like a drown­ing man, thrash­ing and howl­ing in pain, and then, with a crunch and a shat­ter­ing of glass, he smashed in­to the front of a book­case and crum­pled, in­sen­si­ble, to the floor.

“I see what Bel­la­trix meant,” said Har­ry, the blood thun­der­ing through his brain, “you need to re­al­ly mean it.”

“Pot­ter!” whis­pered Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, clutch­ing her heart. “Pot­ter--- you're here! What---? How---?” She strug­gled to pull her­self to­geth­er. “Pot­ter, that was fool­ish!”

“He spat at you,” said Har­ry.

“Pot­ter, I --- that was very --- gal­lant of you --- but don't you re­al­ize --?”

“Yeah, I do,” Har­ry as­sured her. Some­how her pan­ic stead­ied him. “Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Volde­mort's on the way.”

“Oh, are we al­lowed to say the name now?” asked Lu­na with an air of in­ter­est, pulling off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. The ap­pear­ance of a sec­ond out­law seemed to over­whelm Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who stag­gered back­ward and fell in­to a near­by chair, clutch­ing at the neck of her old tar­tan dress­ing gown.

“I don't think it makes any dif­fer­ence what we call him,” Har­ry told Lu­na. “He al­ready knows where I am.”

In a dis­tant part of Har­ry's brain, that part con­nect­ed to the an­gry, burn­ing scar, he could see Volde­mort sail­ing fast over the dark lake in the ghost­ly green boat.... He had near­ly reached the is­land where the stone basin stood....

“You must flee,” whis­pered Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, “Now Pot­ter, as quick­ly as you can!”

“I can't,” said Har­ry, “There's some­thing I need to do. Pro­fes­sor, so you know where the di­adem of Raven­claw is?”

“The d-​di­adem of Raven­claw? Of course not --- hasn't it been lost for cen­turies?” She sat up a lit­tle straighter “Pot­ter, it was mad­ness, ut­ter mad­ness, for you to en­ter this cas­tle---”

“I had to,” said Har­ry. “Pro­fes­sor, there's some­thing hid­den here that I'm sup­posed to find, and it could be the di­adem--- if I could just speak to Pro­fes­sor Flitwick---”

There was a sound of move­ment, of clink­ing glass. Amy­cus was com­ing round. Be­fore Har­ry or Lu­na could act, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall rose to her feet, point­ed her wand at the grog­gy Death Eater, and said, “Im­pe­rio.”

Amy­cus got up, walked over to his sis­ter, picked up her wand, then shuf­fled obe­di­ent­ly to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall and hand­ed it over along with his own. Then he lay down on the floor be­side Alec­to. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall waved her wand again, and a length of shim­mer­ing sil­ver rope ap­peared out of thin air and snaked around the Car­rows, bind­ing them tight­ly to­geth­er.

“Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, turn­ing to face him again with su­perb in­dif­fer­ence to the Car­rows' predica­ment. “if He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named does in­deed know that you are here---”

As she said it, a wrath that was like phys­ical pain blazed through Har­ry, set­ting his scar on fire, and for a sec­ond he looked down up­on a basin whose po­tion had turned clear, and saw that no gold­en lock­et lay safe be­neath the sur­face---.

“Pot­ter, are you all right.” said a voice, and Har­ry came back. He was clutch­ing Lu­na's shoul­der to steady him­self.

“Time's run­ning out, Volde­mort's get­ting near­er, Pro­fes­sor, I'm act­ing on Dum­ble­dore's or­ders, I must find what he want­ed me to find! But we've got to get the stu­dents out while I'm search­ing the cas­tle--- It's me Volde­mort wants, but he won't care about killing a few more or less, not now---” not now he knows I'm at­tack­ing Hor­crux­es, Har­ry fin­ished the sen­tence in his head.

“You're act­ing on Dum­ble­dore's or­ders?” she re­peat­ed with a look of dawn­ing won­der. Then she drew her­self up to her fullest height.

“We shall se­cure the school against He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named while you search for this --- this ob­ject.”

“Is that pos­si­ble?”

“I think so,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dry­ly, “we teach­ers are rather good at mag­ic, you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a while if we all put our best ef­forts in­to it. Of course, some­thing will have to be done about Pro­fes­sor Snape---”

“Let me ---”

“---and if Hog­warts is about to en­ter a state of siege, with the Dark Lord at the gates, it would in­deed be ad­vis­able to take as many in­no­cent peo­ple out of the way as pos­si­ble. With the Floo Net­work un­der ob­ser­va­tion, and Ap­pari­tion im­pos­si­ble with­in the grounds---”

“There's a way,” said Har­ry quick­ly, and he ex­plained about the pas­sage­way lead­ing in­to the Hog's Head.

“Pot­ter, we're talk­ing about hun­dreds of stu­dents---”

“I know, Pro­fes­sor, but if Volde­mort and the Death Eaters are con­cen­trat­ing on the school bound­aries they won't be in­ter­est­ed in any­one who's Dis­ap­pa­rat­ing out of Hog's Head.”

“There's some­thing in that,” she agreed. She point­ed her wand at the Car­rows, and a sil­ver net fell up­on their bound bod­ies, tied it­self around them, and hoist­ed them in­to the air, where they dan­gled be­neath the blue-​and-​gold ceil­ing like two large, ug­ly sea crea­tures. “Come. We must alert the oth­er Heads of House. You'd bet­ter put that Cloak back on.”

She marched to­ward the door, and as she did so she raised her wand. From the tip burst three sil­ver cats with spec­ta­cle mark­ings around their eyes. the Pa­tronus­es ran sleek­ly ahead, fill­ing the spi­ral stair­case with sil­very light, as Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, Har­ry, and Lu­na hur­ried back down.

Along the cor­ri­dors they raced, and one by one the Pa­tronus­es left them. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's tar­tan dress­ing gown rus­tled over the floor, and Har­ry and Lu­na jogged be­hind her un­der the Cloak.

They had de­scend­ed two more floors when an­oth­er set of qui­et joined theirs. Har­ry, whose scar was still prick­ling, heard them first. He felt in the pouch around his neck for the Ma­raud­er's Map, but be­fore he could take it our, McG­ona­gall too seemed to be­come aware of their com­pa­ny. She halt­ed, raised her wand ready to du­el, and said, “Who's there?”

“It is I,” said a low voice.

From be­hind a suit of ar­mor stepped Severus Snape.

Ha­tred boiled up in Har­ry at the sight of him. He had for­got­ten the de­tails of Snape's ap­pear­ance in the mag­ni­tude of his crimes, for­got­ten how his greasy black hair hung in cur­tains around his thin face, how his black eyes had a dead, cold look. He was not wear­ing night­clothes, but was dressed in his usu­al black cloak, and he too was hold­ing his wand ready for a fight.

“Where are the Car­rows?” he asked qui­et­ly.

“Wher­ev­er you told them to be, I ex­pect, Severus,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Snape stepped near­er, and his eyes flit­ted over Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in­to the air around her, as if he knew that Har­ry was there. Har­ry held his wand up too, ready to at­tack.

“I was un­der the im­pres­sion,” said Snape, “That Alec­to had ap­pre­hend­ed an in­trud­er.”

“Re­al­ly?” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “And what gave you that im­pres­sion?”

Snape mad a slight flex­ing move­ment of his left arm, where the Dark Mark was brand­ed in­to his skin.

“Oh, but nat­ural­ly,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “You Death Eaters have your own pri­vate means of com­mu­ni­ca­tion, I for­got.”

Snape pre­tend­ed not to have heard her. His eyes were still prob­ing the air all about her, and he was mov­ing grad­ual­ly clos­er, with an air of hard­ly notic­ing what he was do­ing.

“I did not know that it was your night to pa­trol the cor­ri­dors Min­er­va.”

“You have some ob­jec­tion?”

“I won­der what could have brought you out of our bed at this late hour?”

“I thought I heard a dis­tur­bance,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“Re­al­ly? But all seems calm.”

Snape looked in­to her eyes.

“Have you seen Har­ry Pot­ter, Min­er­va? Be­cause if you have. I must in­sist---”

Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall moved faster than Har­ry could have be­lieved. Her wand slashed through the air and for a split sec­ond Har­ry thought that Snape must crum­ple, un­con­scious, but the swift­ness of his Shield Charm was such that McG­ona­gall was thrown off bal­ance. =She bran­dished her wand at a touch on the wall and it flew out of its brack­et. Har­ry, about to curse Snape, was forced to pull Lu­na out of the way of the de­scend­ing flames, which be­came a ring of fire that filled the cor­ri­dor and flew like a las­so at Snape---

Then it was no longer fire, but a great black ser­pent that McG­ona­gall blast­ed to smoke, which re-​formed and so­lid­ified in sec­onds to be­come a swarm of pur­su­ing dag­gers. Snape avoid­ed them on­ly by forc­ing the suit of ar­mor in front of him, and with echo­ing clangs the dag­gers sank, one af­ter an­oth­er, in­to its breast---

“Min­er­va!” said a squeaky voice, and look­ing be­hind him, still shield­ing Lu­na from fly­ing spells, Har­ry saw Pro­fes­sors Flitwick and Sprout sprint­ing up the cor­ri­dor to­ward them in their night­clothes, with the enor­mous Pro­fes­sor Slughorn pant­ing along at the rear.

“No!” squealed Flitwick, rais­ing his wand. “You'll do no more mur­der at Hog­warts!”

Flitwick's spell hit the suit of ar­mor be­hind which Snape had tak­en shel­ter. With a clat­ter it came to life. Snape strug­gled free of the crush­ing arms and sent it fly­ing back to­ward his at­tack­ers. Har­ry and Lu­na had to dive side­ways to avoid it as it smashed in­to the wall and shat­tered. When Har­ry looked up again, Snape was in full flight, McG­ona­gall, Flitwick, and Sprout all thun­der­ing af­ter him. He hur­tled through a class­room door and, mo­ments lat­er, he heard McG­ona­gall cry, “Cow­ard! COW­ARD!”

“What's hap­pened, what's hap­pened?” asked Lu­na.

Har­ry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the cor­ri­dor, trail­ing the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak be­hind them, in­to the de­sert­ed class­room where Pro­fes­sors McG­ona­gall, Flitwick, and Sprout were stand­ing at a smashed win­dow.

“He jumped,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall as Har­ry and Lu­na ran in­to the room.

“You mean he's dead?” Har­ry sprint­ed to the win­dow, ig­nor­ing Flitwick's and Sprout's yells of shock at his sud­den ap­pear­ance.

“No, he's not dead,” said McG­ona­gall bit­ter­ly. “Un­like Dum­ble­dore, he was still car­ry­ing a wand... and he seems to have learned a few tricks from his mas­ter.”

With a tin­gle of hor­ror, Har­ry saw in the dis­tance a huge, bat like shape fly­ing through the dark­ness to­ward the perime­ter wall.

There were heavy foot­falls be­hind them, and a great deal of puff­ing. Slughorn had just caught up.

“Har­ry!” he pant­ed, mas­sag­ing his im­mense chest be­neath his emer­ald-​green silk pa­ja­mas. “My dear boy... what a sur­prise...Min­er­va, do please ex­plain...Severus...what...?”

“Our head­mas­ter is tak­ing a short break,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, point­ing at the Snape-​shaped hole in the win­dow.

“Pro­fes­sor!” Har­ry shout­ed his hand on his fore­head, He could see the In­feri-​filled lake slid­ing be­neath him, and he felt a ghost­ly green boat bump in­to the un­der­ground shore, and Volde­mort lept from it with mur­der in his heart---

“Pro­fes­sor, we've got to bar­ri­cade the school, he's com­ing now!”

“Very well. He-​Who-​Must-​Not-​Be-​Named is com­ing,” she told the oth­er teach­ers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped. Slughorn let out a low groan. “Pot­ter has work to do in the cas­tle on Dum­ble­dore's or­ders. We need to put in place ev­ery pro­tec­tion of which we are ca­pa­ble while Pot­ter does what he needs to do.”

“You re­al­ize , of course, that noth­ing we do will be able to keep out You-​Know-​Who in­def­inite­ly?” squeaked Flitwick.

“But we can hold him up.” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout.

“Thank you, Pomona,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, and be­tween the two witch­es there passed a look of grim un­der­stand­ing. I sug­gest we es­tab­lish ba­sic pro­tec­tion around the place, then gath­er our stu­dents and meet in the Great Hall. Most must be evac­uat­ed, though if any of those who are over age wish to stay and fight, I think they ought to be giv­en the chance.”

“Agreed,” said Pro­fes­sor Sprout, al­ready hur­ry­ing to­ward the door. “I shall meet you in the Great Hall in twen­ty min­utes with my House.”

And as she jogged out of sight, they could hear her mut­ter­ing, “Ten­tac­ula, Dev­il's Snare. And Snar­galuff pods...yes, I'd like to see the Death Eaters fight­ing those.”

I can act from here,” said Flitwick, and al­though he could bare­ly see out of it, he point­ed his wand through the smashed win­dow and start­ed mut­ter­ing in­can­ta­tions of great com­plex­ity. Har­ry heard a weird rush­ing noise, as though Flitwick had un­leashed the pow­er of the wind in­to the grounds.

“Pro­fes­sor,” Har­ry said, ap­proach­ing the lit­tle Charms mas­ter. “Pro­fes­sor, I'm sor­ry to in­ter­rupt, but this is im­por­tant. Have you got any idea where the di­adem of Raven­claw is?”

“---Pro­tego Hor­ri­bil­lis---the di­adem of Raven­claw?” squeaked Flitwick. “A lit­tle ex­tra wis­dom nev­er goes amiss, Pot­ter, but I hard­ly think it would be much use in this sit­ua­tion!”

“I on­ly meant --- do you know where it is? Have you ev­er seen it?”

“Seen it” No­body has seen it in liv­ing mem­ory! Long since lost, boy.”

Har­ry felt a mix­ture of des­per­ate dis­ap­point­ment and pan­ic. What, then, was the Hor­crux?

“We shall meet you and your Raven­claws in the Great Hall, Fil­ius!” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, beck­on­ing to Har­ry and Lu­na to fol­low her.

They had just reached the door when Slughorn rum­bled in­to speech.

“My word,” he puffed, pale and sweaty, his wal­rus mus­tache aquiver. “What a to-​do! I'm not at all sure whether this is wise, Min­er­va. He is bound to find a way in, you know, and any­one who has tried to de­lay him will be in the most grievous per­il---”

“I shall ex­pect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twen­ty min­utes al­so.” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “If you wish to leave with your stu­dents, we shall not stop you. But if any of you at­tempt to sab­otage our re­sis­tance or take up arms against us with­in this cas­tle, then, Ho­race, we du­el to kill.”

“Min­er­va!” he said, aghast.

“The time has come for Slytherin House to de­cide up­on its loy­al­ties,” in­ter­rupt­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Go and wake your stu­dents, Ho­race.”

Har­ry did not stay to watch Slughorn splut­ter. He and Lu­na stayed af­ter Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who had tak­en up a po­si­tion in the mid­dle of the cor­ri­dor and raised her wand.

“Pier­to­tum---oh, for heav­en's sake, Filch, not now---”

The aged care­tak­er had just come hob­bling in­to view, shout­ing “Stu­dents out of bed! Stu­dents in the cor­ri­dors!”

“They're sup­posed to be you blither­ing id­iot!” shout­ed McG­ona­gall. “Now go and do some­thing con­struc­tive! Find Peeves!”

'P-​Peeves?” stam­mered Filch as though he had nev­er heard the name be­fore.

“Yes, Peeves, you fool, Peeves! Haven't you been com­plain­ing about him for a quar­ter of a cen­tu­ry? Go and fetch him, at once.

Filch ev­ident­ly thought Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall had tak­en leave of her sens­es, but hob­bled away, hunch-​shoul­dered, mut­ter­ing un­der his breath.

“And now---Pier­to­tum Lo­co­ma­tor!” cried Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. And all along the cor­ri­dor the stat­ues and suits of ar­mor jumped down from their plinths, and from the echo­ing crash­es from the floors above and be­low, Har­ry knew that their fel­lows through­out the cas­tle had done the same.

“Hog­warts is threat­ened!” shout­ed Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “Man the bound­aries, pro­tect us, do your du­ty to our school!”

Clat­ter­ing and yelling, the horde of mov­ing stat­ues stam­ped­ed past Har­ry, some of them small­er, oth­ers larg­er than life. There were an­imals too, and the clank­ing suits of ar­mor bran­dished swords and spiked balls on chains.

“Now, Pot­ter,” said McG­ona­gall., “you and Miss Love­good had bet­ter re­turn to your friends and bring them to the Great Hall --- I shall rouse the oth­er Gryffind­ors.”

They part­ed at the top of the next stair­case, Har­ry and Lu­na turn­ing back to­ward the con­cealed en­trance to the Room of Re­quire­ment. As they ran, they met crowds of stu­dents, most wear­ing trav­el­ing cloaks over their pa­ja­mas, be­ing shep­herd­ed down to the Great Hall by teach­ers and pre­fects.

“That was Pot­ter!”

“Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“It was him, I swear, I just saw him!”

“But Har­ry did not look back, and at last they reached the en­trance to the Room of Re­quire­ment, Har­ry leaned against the en­chant­ed wall, which opened to ad­mit them, and he and Lu­na sped back down the steep stair­case.

“Wh--?”

As the room came in­to view, Har­ry slipped down a few stairs in shock. It was packed, far more crowd­ed than when he had last been in there. Kings­ley and Lupin were look­ing up at him, as were Oliv­er Wood, Katie Bell, An­geli­na John­son and Ali­cia Spin­net, Bill and Fleur, and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley.

“Har­ry, what's hap­pen­ing?” said Lupin, meet­ing him at the foot of the stairs.

“Volde­mort's on his way, they're bar­ri­cad­ing he school---Snape's run for it---What are you do­ing here? How did you know?

“We sent mes­sages to the rest of Dum­ble­dore's Army,” Fred ex­plained. “You couldn't ex­pect ev­ery­one to miss the fun, Har­ry, and the D.A. let the Or­der of the Phoenix know, and it all kind of snow­balled.”

“What first, Har­ry?” called George. “What's go­ing on?”

“They're evac­uat­ing the younger kids and ev­ery­one's meet­ing in the Great Hall to get or­ga­nized,” Har­ry said. “We're fight­ing.”

There was a great roar and a surge to­ward the stairs, he was pressed back against he wall as they ran past hi, the min­gled mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix, Dum­ble­dore's Army, and Har­ry's old Quid­ditch team, all with their wands drawn, head­ing up in­to the main cas­tle.

“Come on, Lu­na,” Dean called as he passed, hold­ing out his free hand, she took it and fol­lowed him back up the stairs.

The crowd was thin­ning. On­ly a lit­tle knot of peo­ple re­mained be­low in the Room of Re­quire­ment, and Har­ry joine3d them. Mrs. Weasley was strug­gling with Gin­ny. Around them stood Lupin, Fred, George, Bill and Fleur.

“You're un­der­age!” Mrs. Weasley shout­ed at her daugh­ter as Har­ry ap­proached “I won't per­mit it! The boys, yes, but you, you've got to go home!”

“I won't!”

“Gin­ny's hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her moth­er's grip.

“I'm in Dum­ble­dore's Army---”

“A teenagers' gang!”

“A teenagers' gang that's about to take him on, which no one else has dared to do!” said Fred.

“She's six­teen!” shout­ed Mrs. Weasley. “She's not old enough! What you two were think­ing bring­ing her with you—-”

Fred and George looked slight­ly ashamed of them­selves.

Mom's right, Gin­ny,” said Bill gen­tly. “You can't do this. Ev­ery­one un­der­age will have to leave, it's on­ly right.”

“I can't go home!” Gin­ny shout­ed, an­gry tears sparkling in her eyes. “my whole fam­ily's here, I can't stand wait­ing there alone and not know­ing and --”

Her eyes met Har­ry's for the first time. She looked at him be­seech­ing­ly, but he shook his head and she turned away bit­ter­ly.

“Fine,” she said, star­ing at the en­trance to the tun­nel back to the Hog's Head. “I'll say good-​by now, then, and---”

There was a scuf­fling and a great thump. Some­one else had clam­bered out of the tun­nel, over­bal­anced slight­ly, and fall­en. He pulled him­self up no the near­est chair, looked around through lop­sid­ed horn-​rimmed glass­es, and said, “Am I too late? Has it start­ed. I on­ly just found out, so I --- I ---”

Per­cy splut­tered in­to si­lence. Ev­ident­ly he had not ex­pect­ed to run in­to most of his fam­ily. There was a long mo­ment of as­ton­ish­ment, bro­ken by Fleur turn­ing to Lupin and say­ing, in a wild­ly trans­par­ent at­tempt to break the ten­sion. “So--- 'ow eez lee­tle Ted­dy?”

Lupin blinked at her, star­tled. The si­lence be­tween the Weasleys seemed to be so­lid­ify­ing, like ice.

“I --- oh yes--- he's fine!” Lupin said loud­ly. “yes, Tonks is with him--- at her moth­er's ---”

Per­cy and the oth­er Weasleys were still star­ing at one an­oth­er, frozen.

“Here, I've got a pic­ture?” Lupin shout­ed, pulling a pho­to­graph from in­side his jack­et and show­ing it to Fleur and Har­ry, who saw a tiny ba­by with a tuft of bright turquoise hair, wav­ing fat fists at the cam­era.

“I was a fool!” Per­cy roared, so loud­ly that Lupin near­ly dropped his pho­to­graph. “I was an id­iot, I was a pompous prat, I was a – a --”

“Min­istry-​lov­ing, fam­ily-​dis­own­ing, pow­er-​hun­gry mo­ron,” said Fred.

Per­cy swal­lowed.

“Yes, I was!”

“Well, you can't say fair­er than that,” said Fred, hold­ing his hand out to Per­cy.

Mrs. Weasley burst in­to tears,. She ran for­ward, pushed Fred aside, and pulled Per­cy in­to a stran­gling hug, while he pat­ted her on the back, his eyes on his fa­ther.

“I'm sor­ry, Dad,” Per­cy said.

Mr. Weasley blinked rather rapid­ly, then he too hur­ried to hug his son.

“What made you see sense, Perce?” in­quired George.

“It's been com­ing on for a while,” said Per­cy, mop­ping his eyes un­der his glass­es with a cor­ner of his trav­el­ing cloak. “But I had to find a way out and it's not so easy at the Min­istry, they're im­pris­on­ing traitors all the time. I man­aged to make con­tact with Aber­forth and he tipped me off ten min­utes ago that Hog­warts was go­ing to make a fight of it, so here I am.”

“Well, we do look to our pre­fects to take a lead at times such as these,” said George in a good im­ita­tion of Per­cy's most pompous man­ner. “Now let's get up­stairs and fight, or all the good Death Eaters'll be tak­en.”

“So, you're my sis­ter in-​law now?” Said Per­cy, shak­ing hands with Fleur as they hur­ried off to­ward the stair­case with Bill, Fred, and George.

“Gin­ny!” barked Mrs. Weasley.

Gin­ny had been at­tempt­ing, un­der cov­er of the rec­on­cil­ia­tions to sneak up­stairs too.

“Mol­ly, how about this,” said Lupin. “Why doesn't Gin­ny stay here , then at least she'll be on the scene and know what's go­ing on, but she won't be in the mid­dle of the fight­ing?”

“I---”

“That's a good idea,” said Mr. Weasley firm­ly, “ Gin­ny, you stay in this room, you hear me?”

Gin­ny did not seem to like the idea much, but un­der her fa­ther's un­usu­al­ly stern gaze, she nod­ded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin head­ed off to the stairs as well.

“Where's Ron?” asked Har­ry, “Where's Hermione?”

“They must have gone up the Great Hall al­ready,” Mr. Weasley called over his shoul­der.

“ I didn't see them pass me,” said Har­ry.

“They said some­thing about a bath­room,” said Gin­ny, “not long af­ter you left.”

“A bath­room?”

Har­ry strode across the room to an open door lead­ing off the Room of Re­quire­ment and checked the bath­room be­yond. It was emp­ty.

“You're sure they said bath---?”

But then his scar seared and the Room of Req1uire­ment van­ished. He was look­ing through the high wrought-​iron gates with winged boats on pil­lars at ei­ther side, look­ing through the dark grounds to­ward the cas­tle, which was ablaze with lights. Nagi­ni lay draped over his shoul­ders. He was pos­sessed of that cold, cru­el sense of pur­pose that pre­ced­ed mur­der.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRDTY-ONE


THE BAT­TLE OF HOG­WARTS



The en­chant­ed ceil­ing of the Great Hall was dark and scat­tered with stars, and be­low it the four long House ta­bles were lined with di­sheveled stu­dents, some in trav­el­ing cloaks, oth­ers in dress­ing gowns. Here and there shone the pearly white fig­ures of the school ghosts. Ev­ery eye, liv­ing and dead was fixed up­on Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, who was speak­ing from the raised plat­form at the top of the Hall. Be­hind her stood the re­main­ing teach­es, in­clud­ing the palomi­no cen­taur, Firen­ze, and the mem­bers of the Or­der of the Phoenix who had ar­rived to fight. "...evac­ua­tion will be over­seen by Mr. Filch and Madame Pom­frey. Pre­fects, when I give the word, you will or­ga­nize your House and take your charges in or­der­ly fash­ion to the evac­ua­tion point.

Many of the stu­dents looked pet­ri­fied. How­ev­er, as Har­ry skirt­ed the walls, scan­ning the Gryffind­or ta­ble for Ron and Hermione, Ernie Macmil­lan stood up at the Huf­flepuff ta­ble and shout­ed; “And what if we want to stay and fight?”

There was a smat­ter­ing of ap­plause.

“If you are of age, you may stay.” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

“What about our things?” called a girl at the Raven­claw ta­ble. “Our trunks, our owls?”

“We have no time to col­lect pos­ses­sions.” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. “The im­por­tant thing is to get you out of here safe­ly.”

“Where's Pro­fes­sor Snape?” shout­ed a girl from the Slytherin ta­ble.

“He has, to use the com­mon phrase, done a bunk.” replied Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall and a great cheer erupt­ed from the Gryffind­ors, Huf­flepuffs, and Raven­claws.

Har­ry moved up the Hall along­side the Gryffind­or ta­ble, still look­ing for Ron and Hermione. As he passed, faces turned in his di­rec­tion, and a great deal of whis­per­ing broke out in his wake.

“We have al­ready placed pro­tec­tion around the cas­tle,” Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall was say­ing, “but it is un­like­ly to hold for very long un­less we re­in­force it. I must ask you, there­fore, to move quick­ly and calm­ly, and do as your pre­fects -”

But her fi­nal words were drowned as a dif­fer­ent voice echoed through­out the Hall. It was high, cold, and clear. There was no telling from where it came. It seemed to is­sue from the walls them­selves. Like the mon­ster it had once com­mand­ed, it might have lain dor­mant there for cen­turies.

“I know that you are prepar­ing to fight.” There were screams amongst the stu­dents, some of whom clutched each oth­er, look­ing around in ter­ror for the source of the sound. “Your ef­forts are fu­tile. You can­not fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great re­spect for the teach­ers of Hog­warts. I do not want to spill mag­ical blood.”

There was si­lence in the Hall now, the kind of si­lence that press­es against the eardrums, that seems too huge to be con­tained by walls.

“Give me Har­ry Pot­ter,” said Volde­mort's voice, "and they shall not be harmed. Give me Har­ry Pot­ter and I shall leave the school un­touched. Give me Har­ry Pot­ter and you will be re­ward­ed.

“You have un­til mid­night.”

The si­lence swal­lowed them all again. Ev­ery head turned, ev­ery eye in the place seemed to have found Har­ry, to hold him for­ev­er in the glare of thou­sands of in­vis­ible beams. Then a fig­ure rose from the Slytherin ta­ble and he rec­og­nized Pan­sy Parkin­son as she raised a shak­ing arm and screamed, “But he's there! Pot­ter's there. Some­one grab him!”

Be­fore Har­ry could speak, there was a mas­sive move­ment. The Gryffind­ors in front of him had risen and stood fac­ing, not Har­ry, but the Slytherins. Then the Huf­flepuffs stood, and al­most at the same mo­ment, the Raven­claws, all of them with their backs to Har­ry, all of them look­ing to­ward Pan­sy in­stead, and Har­ry, awestruck and over­whelmed, saw wands emerg­ing ev­ery­where, pulled from be­neath cloaks and from un­der sleeves.

“Thank you, Miss Parkin­son.” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall in a clipped voice. “You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could fol­low.”

Har­ry heard the grind­ing of the bench­es and then the sound of the Slytherins troop­ing out on the oth­er side of the Hall.

“Raven­claws, fol­low on!” cried Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall.

Slow­ly the four ta­bles emp­tied. The Slytherin ta­ble was com­plete­ly de­sert­ed, but a num­ber of old­er Raven­claws re­mained seat­ed while their fel­lows filed out; even more Huf­flepuffs stayed be­hind, and half of Gryffind­or re­mained in their seats, ne­ces­si­tat­ing Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall's de­scent from the teach­ers' plat­form to chivvy the un­der­age on their way.

“Ab­so­lute­ly not, Creevey, go! And you, Peakes!”

Har­ry hur­ried over to the Weasleys, all sit­ting to­geth­er at the Gryffind­or ta­ble.



“Where are Ron and Hermione?”

“Haven't you found -?” be­gan Mr. Weasley, look­ing wor­ried.

But he broke off as Kings­ley had stepped for­ward on the raised plat­form to ad­dress those who had re­mained be­hind.

“We've on­ly got half an half an hour un­til mid­night, so we need to act fast. A bat­tle plan has been agreed be­tween the teach­ers of Hog­warts and the Or­der of the Phoenix. Pro­fes­sors Flitwick, Sprout and McG­ona­gall are go­ing to take groups of fight­ers up to the three high­est tow­ers - Raven­claw, As­tron­omy, and Gryffind­or - where they'll have good overview, ex­cel­lent po­si­tions from which to work spells. Mean­while Re­mus” - he in­di­cat­ed Lupin - “Arthur” - he point­ed to­ward Mr. Weasley, sit­ting at the Gryffind­or ta­ble - “and I will take groups in­to the grounds. We'll need some­body to or­ga­nize de­fense of the en­trances or the pas­sage­ways in­to the school -”

“Sounds like a job for us.” called Fred, in­di­cat­ing him­self and George, and Kings­ley nod­ded his ap­proval.

“All right, lead­ers up here and we'll di­vide up the troops!”

“Pot­ter,” said Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, hur­ry­ing up to him, as stu­dents flood­ed the plat­form, jostling for po­si­tion, re­ceiv­ing in­struc­tions, “Aren't you sup­posed to be look­ing for some­thing?”

“What? Oh,” said Har­ry, “oh yeah!”

He had al­most for­got­ten about the Hor­crux, al­most for­got­ten that the bat­tle was be­ing fought so that he could search for it: The in­ex­pli­ca­ble ab­sence of Ron and Hermione had mo­men­tar­ily driv­en ev­ery oth­er thought from his mind.

“Then go, Pot­ter, go!”

“Right - yeah -”

He sensed eyes fol­low­ing him as he ran out of the Great Hall again, in­to the en­trance hall still crowd­ed with evac­uat­ing stu­dents. He al­lowed him­self to be swept up the mar­ble stair­case with them, but at the top he hur­ried off along a de­sert­ed cor­ri­dor. Fear and pan­ic were cloud­ing his thought pro­cess­es. He tried to calm him­self, to con­cen­trate on find­ing the Hor­crux, but his thoughts buzzed as fran­ti­cal­ly and fruit­less­ly as wasps trapped be­neath a glass. With­out Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem to mar­shal his ideas. He slowed down, com­ing to a halt halfway along a pas­sage, where he sat down on the plinth of a de­part­ed stat­ue and pulled the Ma­raud­er's Map out of the pouch around his neck. He could not see Ron's of Hermione's names any­where on it, though the den­si­ty of the crowd of dots now mak­ing its way to the Room of Re­quire­ment might, he thought, be con­ceal­ing them. He put the map away, pressed his hands over his face, and closed his eyes, try­ing to con­cen­trate.

Volde­mort thought I'd go to Raven­claw Tow­er.

There it was, a sol­id fact, the place to start. Volde­mort had sta­tioned Alec­to Car­row in the Raven­claw com­mon room, and there could be on­ly one ex­pla­na­tion; Volde­mort feared that Har­ry al­ready knew his Hor­crux was con­nect­ed to that House.

But the on­ly ob­ject any­one seemed to as­so­ciate with Raven­claw was the lost di­adem... and how could the Hor­crux be the di­adem? How was it pos­si­ble that Volde­mort, the Slytherin, had found the di­adem that had elud­ed gen­er­ations of Raven­claws? Who could have told him where to look, when no­body had seen the di­adem in liv­ing mem­ory?

In liv­ing mem­ory...

Be­neath his fin­gers, Har­ry's eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the plinth and tore back the way he had come, now in pur­suit of his one last hope. The sound of hun­dreds of peo­ple march­ing to­ward the Room of Re­quire­ment grew loud­er and loud­er as he re­turned to the mar­ble stairs. Pre­fects were shout­ing in­struc­tions, try­ing to keep track of the stu­dents in their own hous­es, there was much push­ing and shout­ing; Har­ry saw Zacharias Smith bowl­ing over first years to get to the front of the queue, here and there younger stu­dents were in tears, while old­er ones called des­per­ate­ly for friends or sib­lings.

Har­ry caught sight of a pearly white fig­ure drift­ing across the en­trance hall be­low and yelled as loud­ly as he could over the clam­or.

“Nick! NICK! I need to talk to you!”

He forced his way back through the tide of stu­dents, fi­nal­ly reach­ing the bot­tom of the stairs, where Near­ly Head­less Nick, ghost of Gryffind­or Tow­er, stood wait­ing for him.

“Har­ry! My dear boy!”

Nick made to grasp Har­ry's hands with both of his own; Har­ry felt as though they had been thrust in­to icy wa­ter.

“Nick, you've got to help me. Who's the ghost of Raven­claw Tow­er?”

Near­ly Head­less Nick looked sur­prised and a lit­tle of­fend­ed.

“The Gray La­dy, of course; but if it is ghost­ly ser­vices you re­quire -?”

“It's got to be her - d'you know where she is?”

“Let's see...”



Nick's head wob­bled a lit­tle on his ruff as he turned hith­er and thith­er, peer­ing over the heads of the swarm­ing stu­dents.

“That's her over there, Har­ry, the young wom­an with the long hair.”

Har­ry looked in the di­rec­tion of Nick's trans­par­ent, point­ing fin­ger and saw a tall ghost who caught sight of Har­ry look­ing at her, raised her eye­brows, and drift­ed away through a sol­id wall.

Har­ry ran af­ter her. Once through the door of the cor­ri­dor in­to which she had dis­ap­peared, he saw her at the very end of the pas­sage, still glid­ing smooth­ly away from him.

“hey - wait - come back!”

She con­sent­ed to pause, float­ing a few inch­es from the ground. Har­ry sup­posed that she was beau­ti­ful, with her waist-​length hair and floor-​length cloak, but she al­so looked haughty and proud. Close in, he rec­og­nized her as a ghost he had passed sev­er­al times in the cor­ri­dor, but to whom he had nev­er spo­ken.

“You're the Gray La­dy?”

She nod­ded but did not speak.

“The ghost of Raven­claw Tow­er?”

“That is cor­rect.”

Her tone was not en­cour­ag­ing.

“Please, I need some help. I need to know any­thing you can tell me about the lost di­adem.”

A cold smile curved her lips.

“I am afraid,” she said, turn­ing to leave, “that I can­not help you.”

“WAIT!”

He had not meant to shout, but anger and pan­ic were threat­en­ing to over­whelm him. He glanced at his watch as she hov­ered in front of him. It was a quar­ter to mid­night.

“This is ur­gent.” he said fierce­ly. “If that di­adem's at Hog­warts, I've got to find it, fast.”

“You are hard­ly the first stu­dent to cov­et the di­adem.” she said dis­dain­ful­ly. “Gen­er­ations of stu­dents have bad­gered me -”

“This isn't about try­ing to get bet­ter marks!” Har­ry shout­ed at her, “It's about Volde­mort - de­feat­ing Volde­mort - or aren't you in­ter­est­ed in that?”



She could not blush, but her trans­par­ent cheeks be­came more opaque, and her voice was heat­ed as she replied, “Of course I - how dare you sug­gest -?”

“Well, help me then!”

Her com­po­sure was slip­ping.

“It - it is not a ques­tion of -” she stam­mered. My moth­er's di­adem -"

“Your moth­er's?”

She looked an­gry with her­self.

“When I lived,” she said stiffly, “I was He­le­na Raven­claw.”

“You're her daugh­ter? But then, you must know what happed to it.”

“While the di­adem be­stows wis­dom,” she said with an ob­vi­ous ef­fort to pull her­self to­geth­er, “I doubt that it would great­ly in­crease you chances of de­feat­ing the wiz­ard who calls him­self Lord -”

Haven't I told you, I'm not in­ter­est­ed in wear­ing it!“ Har­ry said fierce­ly. ”There's no time to ex­plain - but if you care about Hog­warts, if you want to see Volde­mort fin­ished, you've got to tell me any­thing you know about the di­adem!"

She re­mained quite still, float­ing in midair, star­ing down at him, and a sense of hope­less­ness en­gulfed Har­ry. Of course, if she had known any­thing, she would have told Flitwick of Dum­ble­dore, who had sure­ly asked her the same ques­tion. He had shak­en his head and made to turn away when she spoke in a low voice.

“I stole the di­adem from my moth­er.”

“You - you did what?”

“I stole the di­adem.” re­peat­ed He­le­na Raven­claw in a whis­per. “I sought to make my­self clev­er­er, more im­por­tant than my moth­er. I ran away with it.”

He did not know how he had man­aged to gain her con­fi­dence and did not ask, he sim­ply lis­tened, hard, as she went on.

"My moth­er, they say, nev­er ad­mit­ted that the di­adem was gone, but pre­tend­ed that she had it still. She con­cealed her loss, my dread­ful be­tray­al, even from the oth­er founders of Hog­warts.

“Then my moth­er fell ill - fa­tal­ly ill. In spite of my per­fidy, she was des­per­ate to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me, though I spurned his ad­vances, to find me. She knew that he would not rest un­til he had done so.”



Har­ry wait­ed. She drew a deep breath and threw back her head.

“He tracked me to the for­est where I was hid­ing. When I re­fused to re­turn with him, he be­came vi­olent. The baron was al­ways a hot-​tem­pered man. Fu­ri­ous at my re­fusal, jeal­ous of my free­dom, he stabbed me.”

“The Baron? You mean -?”

“he Bloody Baron, yes,” said the Gray La­dy, and she lift­ed aside the cloak she wore to re­veal a sin­gle dark wound in her white chest. When he saw what he had done, he was over­come with re­morse. He took the weapon that had claimed my life, and used it to kill him­self. All these cen­turies lat­er, he wears his chains as an act of pen­itence ... as he should." she added bit­ter­ly.

“And - and the di­adem?”

“It re­mained where I had hid­den it when I heard the Baron blun­der­ing through the for­est to­ward me. Con­cealed in­side a hol­low tree.”

“A hol­low tree?” re­peat­ed Har­ry. “What tree? Where was this?”

“A for­est in Al­ba­nia. A lone­ly place I thought was far be­yond my moth­er's reach.”

“Al­ba­nia,” re­peat­ed Har­ry. Sense was emerg­ing mirac­ulous­ly from con­fu­sion, and now he un­der­stood why she was telling him what she had de­nied Dum­ble­dore and Flitwick. “You've al­ready told some­one this sto­ry, haven't you? An­oth­er stu­dent?”

She closed her eyes and nod­ded.

“I had... no idea... He was flat­ter­ing. He seemed to... un­der­stand... to sym­pa­thize...”

Yes, Har­ry thought. Tom Rid­dle would cer­tain­ly have un­der­stood He­le­na Raven­claw's de­sire to pos­sess fab­ulous ob­jects to which she had lit­tle right.

“Well, you weren't the first per­son Rid­dle wormed things out of.” Har­ry mut­tered. “He could be charm­ing when he want­ed...”

So, Volde­mort had man­aged to whee­dle the lo­ca­tion of the lost di­adem out of the Gray La­dy. He had trav­eled to that far-​flung for­est and re­trieved the di­adem from its hid­ing place, per­haps as soon as he left Hog­warts, be­fore he even start­ed work at Bor­gin and Burkes.

And wouldn't those se­clud­ed Al­ba­ni­an woods have seemed an ex­cel­lent refuge when, so much lat­er, Volde­mort and need­ed a place to lie low, undis­turbed, for ten long years?

But the di­adem, once it be­came his pre­cious Hor­crux, had not been left in that low­ly tree. . . . No, the di­adem had been re­turned se­cret­ly to its true home, and Volde­mort must have put it there –

“—the night he asked for a job!” said Har­ry, fin­ish­ing his thought.

“I beg your par­don?”

“He hid the di­adem in the cas­tle, the night he asked Dum­ble­dore to let him teach!” said Har­ry. Say­ing it out loud en­abled him to make sense of it all. “He must’ve hid­den the di­adem on his way up to, or down from, Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice! But it was well worth try­ing to get the job – then he might’ve got the chance to nick Gryffind­or’s sword as well – thank you, thanks!”

Har­ry left her float­ing there, look­ing ut­ter­ly be­wil­dered. As he round­ed the cor­ner back in­to the en­trance hall, he checked his watch. It was five min­utes un­til mid­night, and though he now knew what the last Hor­crux was, he was no clos­er to dis­cov­er­ing where it was. . .

Gen­er­ations of stu­dents had failed to find the di­adem; that sug­gest­ed that it was not in Raven­claw Tow­er – but if not there, where? What hid­ing place had Tom Rid­dle dis­cov­ered in­side Hog­warts Cas­tle, that he be­lieved would re­main se­cret for­ev­er?

Lost in des­per­ate spec­ula­tion, Har­ry turned a cor­ner, but he had tak­en on­ly a few steps down the new cor­ri­dor when the win­dow to his left broke open with a deaf­en­ing, shat­ter­ing crash. As he leapt aside, a gi­gan­tic body flew in through the win­dow and hit the op­po­site wall.

Some­thing large and fur­ry de­tached it­self, whim­per­ing, from the new ar­rival and flung it­self at Har­ry.

“Ha­grid!” Har­ry bel­lowed, fight­ing off Fang the boarhound’s at­ten­tions as the enor­mous beard­ed fig­ure clam­bered to his feet “What the --?”

“Har­ry, yer here! Yer here!”

Ha­grid stooped down, be­stowed up­on Har­ry a cur­so­ry and rib-​crack­ing hug, then ran back to the shat­tered win­dow.

“Good boy, Graw­py!” he bel­lowed through the hole in the win­dow. “I’ll se yer in a mo­ment, there’s a good lad!”

Be­yond Ha­grid, out in the dark night, Har­ry saw bursts of light in the dis­tance and heard a weird, keen­ing scream. He looked down at his watch: It was mid­night. The bat­tle had be­gun.

“Blimey, Har­ry,” pant­ed Ha­grid, “this is it, eh? Time ter fight?”

“Ha­grid, where have you come from?”

“Heard You-​Know-​Who from up in our cave,” said Ha­grid grim­ly. “Voice car­ried, didn’t it? ‘Yet got till mid­night ter gimme Pot­ter.’ Knew yeh mus’ be here, knew that mus’ be hap­penin’. Get down, Fang. So we come ter join in, me an’ Graw­py an’ Fang. Smashed our way through the bound­ary by the for­est, Graw­py was car­ryin’ us, Fang an’ me. Told him ter let me down at the cas­tle, so he shoved me through the win­dow, bless him. Not ex­act­ly what I meant, bu’ – where’s Ron an’ Hermione?”

“That,” said Har­ry, “is a re­al­ly good ques­tion. Come on.”

They hur­ried to­geth­er along the cor­ri­dor, Fang lol­lop­ing be­side them. Har­ry could hear move­ment through the cor­ri­dors all around: run­ning foot­steps, shouts; through the win­dows, he could see more flash­es of light in the dark grounds.

“Where’re we goin’?” puffed Ha­grid, pound­ing along at Har­ry’s heels, mak­ing the floor­boards quake.

“I dun­no ex­act­ly,” said Har­ry, mak­ing an­oth­er ran­dom turn, “but Ron and Hermione must be around here some­where. . . .”

The first ca­su­al­ties of the bat­tle were al­ready strewn across the pas­sage ahead: The two stone gar­goyles that usu­al­ly guard­ed the en­trance to the staffroom had been smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed through an­oth­er bro­ken win­dow. Their re­mains stirred fee­bly on the floor, and as Har­ry leapt over one of their dis­em­bod­ied heads, it moaned faint­ly. “Oh, don’t mind me . . . I’ll just be here and crum­ble. . . .”

Its ug­ly stone face made Har­ry think sud­den­ly of the mar­ble bust of Rowe­na Raven­claw at Xenophilius’s house, wear­ing that mad head­dress – and then of the stat­ue in Raven­claw Tow­er, with the stone di­adem up­on her white curls. . . .

And as he reached the end of the pas­sage, the mem­ory of a third stone ef­fi­gy came back to him: that of an ug­ly old war­lock, on­to whose head Har­ry him­self had placed a wig and a bat­tered old hat. The shock shot through Har­ry with the heat of firewhisky, and he near­ly stum­bled.

He knew, at least, where the Hor­crux sat wait­ing for him. . . .

Tom Rid­dle, who con­fid­ed in no one and op­er­at­ed alone, might have been ar­ro­gant enough to as­sume that he, and on­ly he, had pen­etrat­ed the deep­est mys­ter­ies of Hog­warts Cas­tle. Of course, Dum­ble­dore and Flitwick, those mod­el pupils, had nev­er set foot in that par­tic­ular place, but he, Har­ry, had strayed off the beat­en track in his time at school – here at least was a se­cret area he and Volde­mort knew, that Dum­ble­dore had nev­er dis­cov­ered –

He was roused by Pro­fes­sor Sprout, who was thun­der­ing past fol­lowed by Neville and half a dozen oth­ers, all of them wear­ing ear­muffs and car­ry­ing what ap­peared to be large pot­ted plants.

“Man­drakes!” Neville bel­lowed at Har­ry over his shoul­der as he ran. “Go­ing to lob them over the walls – they won’t like this!”

Har­ry knew now where to go. He sped off, with Ha­grid and Fang gal­lop­ing be­hind him. They passed por­trait af­ter por­trait, and the paint­ed fig­ures raced along­side them, wiz­ards and witch­es in ruffs and breech­es, in ar­mor and cloaks, cram­ming them­selves in­to each oth­ers’ can­vas­es, scream­ing news from oth­er parts of the cas­tle. As they reached the end of this cor­ri­dor, the whole cas­tle shook, and Har­ry knew, as a gi­gan­tic vase blew off its plinth with ex­plo­sive force, that it was in the grip of en­chant­ments more sin­is­ter than those of the teach­ers and the Or­der.

“It’s all righ’, Fang – it’s all righ’!” yelled Ha­grid, but the great boarhound had tak­en flight as sliv­ers of chi­na flew like shrap­nel through the air, and Ha­grid pound­ed off af­ter the ter­ri­fied dog, leav­ing Har­ry alone.

He forged on through the trem­bling pas­sages, his wand at the ready, and for the length of one cor­ri­dor the lit­tle paint­ed knight, Sir Cadri­gan, rushed from paint­ing to paint­ing be­side him, clank­ing along in his ar­mor, scream­ing en­cour­age­ment, his fat lit­tle pony can­ter­ing be­hind him.

“Brag­garts and rogues, dogs and scoundrels, drive them out, Har­ry Pot­ter, see them off!”

Har­ry hur­tled around a cor­ner and found Fred and a small knot of stu­dents, in­clud­ing Lee Jor­dan and Han­nah Ab­bott, stand­ing be­side an­oth­er emp­ty plinth, whose stat­ue had con­cealed a se­cret pas­sage­way. Their wands were drawn and they were lis­ten­ing at the con­cealed hole.

“Nice night for it!” Fred shout­ed as the cas­tle quaked again, and Har­ry sprint­ed by, elat­ed and ter­ri­fied in equal mea­sure. Along yet an­oth­er cor­ri­dor he dashed, and then there were owls ev­ery­where, and Mrs. Nor­ris was hiss­ing and try­ing to bat them with her paws, no doubt to re­turn them to their prop­er place. . . .

“Pot­ter!”

Aber­forth Dum­ble­dore stood block­ing the cor­ri­dor ahead, his wand held ready.

“I’ve had hun­dreds of kids thun­der­ing through my pub, Pot­ter!” “I know, we’re evac­uat­ing,” Har­ry said, “Volde­mort’s –“

“– at­tack­ing be­cause they haven’t hand­ed you over, yeah,” said Aber­forth. “I’m not deaf, the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it nev­er oc­curred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage? There are kids of Death Eaters you’ve just sent to safe­ty. Wouldn’t it have been a bit smarter to keep ‘em here?” “It wouldn’t stop Volde­mort,” said Har­ry, “and your broth­er would nev­er have done it.” Aber­forth grunt­ed and tore away in the op­po­site di­rec­tion.

Your broth­er would nev­er have done it. . . . Well, it was the truth, Har­ry thought as he ran on again: Dum­ble­dore, who had de­fend­ed Snape for so long, would nev­er have held stu­dents ran­som. . . .

And then he skid­ded around a fi­nal cor­ner and with a yell of min­gled re­lief and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione; both with their arms full of large, curved, dirty yel­low ob­jects, Ron with a broom­stick un­der his arms.

“Where the hell have you been?” Har­ry shout­ed.

“Cham­ber of Se­crets,” said Ron.

“Cham­ber – what?” said Har­ry, com­ing to an un­steady halt be­fore them.

“It was Ron, all Ron’s idea!” said Hermione breath­less­ly. “Wasn’t it ab­so­lute­ly bril­liant? There we were, af­ter we left, and I said to Ron, even if we find the oth­er one, how are we go­ing to get rid of it? We still hadn’t got rid of the cup! And then he thought of it! The basilisk!”

“What the – ?”

“Some­thing to get rid of Hor­crux­es,” said Ron sim­ply.

Har­ry’s eyes dropped to the ob­jects clutched in Ron and Hermione’s arms: great curved fangs; torn, he now re­al­ized, from the skull of a dead basilisk.

“But how did you get in there?” he asked, star­ing from the fangs to Ron. “You need to speak Parsel­tongue!” “He did!” whis­pered Hermione. “Show him, Ron!” Ron made a hor­ri­ble stran­gled hiss­ing noise.

“It’s what you did to open the lock­et,” he told Har­ry apolo­get­ical­ly. “I had to have a few goes to get it right, but,” he shrugged mod­est­ly, “we got there in the end.” “He was amaz­ing!” said Hermione. “Amaz­ing!”

“So . . .” Har­ry was strug­gling to keep up. “So . . .”

“So we’re an­oth­er Hor­crux down,” said Ron, and from un­der his jack­et he pulled the man­gled re­mains of Huf­flepuff’s cup. “Hermione stabbed it. Thought she should. She hasn’t had the plea­sure yet.” “Ge­nius!” yelled Har­ry.

“It was noth­ing,” said Ron, though he looked de­light­ed with him­self. “So what’s new with you?”

As he said it, there was an ex­plo­sion from over­head: All three of them looked up as dust fell from the ceil­ing and they heard a dis­tant scream.

“I know what the di­adem looks like, and I know where it is,” said Har­ry, talk­ing fast. “He hid it ex­act­ly where I had my old Po­tions book, where ev­ery­one’s been hid­ing stuff for cen­turies. He thought he was the on­ly one to find it. Come on.” As the walls trem­bled again, he led the oth­er two back through the con­cealed en­trance and down the stair­case in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment. It was emp­ty ex­cept for three wom­en: Gin­ny, Tonks and an el­der­ly witch wear­ing a moth-​eat­en hat, whom Har­ry rec­og­nized im­me­di­ate­ly as Neville’s grand­moth­er.

“Ah, Pot­ter,” she said crisply as if she had been wait­ing for him. “You can tell us what’s go­ing on.” “Is ev­ery­one okay?” said Gin­ny and Tonks to­geth­er.

“’S far as we know,” said Har­ry. “Are there still peo­ple in the pas­sage to the Hog’s Head?”

He knew that the room would not be able to trans­form while there were still users in­side it.

“I was the last to come through,” said Mrs. Long­bot­tom. “I sealed it, I think it un­wise to leave it open now Aber­forth has left his pub. Have you seen my grand­son?”

“He’s fight­ing,” said Har­ry.

“Nat­ural­ly,” said the old la­dy proud­ly. “Ex­cuse me, I must go and as­sist him.” With sur­pris­ing speed she trot­ted off to­ward the stone steps.

Har­ry looked at Tonks.

“I thought you were sup­posed to be with Ted­dy at your moth­er’s?” “I couldn’t stand not know­ing –“ Tonks looked an­guished. “She’ll look af­ter him – have you seen Re­mus?” “He was plan­ning to lead a group of fight­ers in­to the grounds –“

With­out an­oth­er word, Tonks sped off.

“Gin­ny,” said Har­ry, “I’m sor­ry, but we need you to leave too. Just for a bit. Then you can come back in.”

Gin­ny looked sim­ply de­light­ed to leave her sanc­tu­ary.

“And then you can come back in!” he shout­ed af­ter her as she ran up the steps af­ter Tonks. “You’ve got to come back in!”

“Hang on a mo­ment!” said Ron sharply. “We’ve for­got­ten some­one!” “Who?” asked Hermione.

“The house-​elves, they’ll all be down in the kitchen, won’t they?” “You mean we ought to get them fight­ing?” asked Har­ry.

“No,” said Ron se­ri­ous­ly, “I mean we should tell them to get out. We don’t want any­more Dob­bies, do we? We can’t or­der them to die for us –“

There was a clat­ter as the basilisk fangs cas­cad­ed out of Hermione’s arms. Run­ning at Ron, she flung them around his neck and kissed him full on the mouth. Ron threw away the fangs and broom­stick he was hold­ing and re­spond­ed with such en­thu­si­asm that he lift­ed Hermione off her feet.

“Is this the mo­ment?” Har­ry asked weak­ly, and when noth­ing hap­pened ex­cept that Ron and Hermione gripped each oth­er still more firm­ly and swayed on the spot, he raised his voice. “Oi! There’s a war go­ing on here!” Ron and Hermione broke apart, their arms still around each oth­er.

“I know, mate,” said Ron, who looked as though he had re­cent­ly been hit on the back of the head with a Bludger, “so it’s now or nev­er, isn’t it?”

“Nev­er mind that, what about the Hor­crux?” Har­ry shout­ed. “D’you think you could just – just hold it in un­til we’ve got the di­adem?”

“Yeah – right – sor­ry –“ said Ron, and he and Hermione set about gath­er­ing up fangs, both pink in the face.

It was clear, as the three of them stepped back in­to the cor­ri­dor up­stairs, that in the min­utes that they had spent in the Room of Re­quire­ment the sit­ua­tion with­in the cas­tle had de­te­ri­orat­ed severe­ly: The walls and ceil­ing were shak­ing worse than ev­er; dust filled the air, and through the near­est win­dow, Har­ry saw bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the cas­tle that he knew the Death Eaters must be very near to en­ter­ing the place. Look­ing down, Har­ry saw Grawp the gi­ant me­an­der­ing past, swing­ing what looked like a stone gar­goyle torn from the roof and roar­ing his dis­plea­sure.

“Let’s hope he steps on some of them!” said Ron as more screams echoed from close by.

“As long as it’s not any of our lot!” said a voice: Har­ry turned and saw Gin­ny and Tonks, both with their wands drawn at the next win­dow, which was miss­ing sev­er­al panes. Even as he watched, Gin­ny sent a well-​aimed jinx in­to a crowd of fight­ers be­low.

“Good girl!” roared a fig­ure run­ning through the dust to­ward them, and Har­ry saw Aber­forth again, his gray hair fly­ing as he led a small group of stu­dents past. “They look like they might be breach­ing the north bat­tle­ments, they’ve brought gi­ants of their own.”

“Have you seen Re­mus?” Tonks called af­ter him.

“He was du­el­ing Dolo­hov,” shout­ed Aber­forth, “haven’t seen him since!” “Tonks,” said Gin­ny, “Tonks, I’m sure he’s okay –“

But Tonks had run off in­to the dust af­ter Aber­forth.

Gin­ny turned, help­less, to Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione.

“They’ll be all right,” said Har­ry, though he knew they were emp­ty words. “Gin­ny, we’ll be back in a mo­ment, just keep out of the way, keep safe – come on!” he said to Ron and Hermione, and they ran back to the stretch of wall be­yond which the Room of Re­quire­ment was wait­ing to do the bid­ding of the next en­trant.

I need the place where ev­ery­thing is hid­den. Har­ry begged of it in­side his head, and the door ma­te­ri­al­ized on their third run past.

The furor of the bat­tle died the mo­ment they crossed the thresh­old and closed the door be­hind them: All was silent. They were in a place the size of a cathe­dral with the ap­pear­ance of a city, its tow­er­ing walls built of ob­jects hid­den by thou­sands of long-​gone stu­dents.

“And he nev­er re­al­ized any­one could get in?” said Ron, his voice echo­ing in the si­lence.

“He thought he was the on­ly one,” said Har­ry. “Too bad for him I’ve had to hide stuff in my time . . . this way,” he added. “I think it’s down here. . . .” They sped off up ad­ja­cent aisles; Har­ry could hear the oth­ers’ foot­steps echo­ing through the tow­er­ing piles of junk, of bot­tles, hats, crates, chairs, books, weapons, broom­sticks, bats. . . .

“Some­where near here,” Har­ry mut­tered to him­self. “Some­where . . . some­where . . .”

Deep­er and deep­er in­to the labyrinth he went, look­ing for ob­jects he rec­og­nized from his one pre­vi­ous trip in­to the room. His breath was loud in his ears, and then his very soul seemed to shiv­er. There it was, right ahead, the blis­tered old cup­board in which he had hid­den his old Po­tions book, and on top of it, the pock­marked stone war­lock wear­ing a dusty old wig and what looked like an an­cient dis­col­ored tiara.

He had al­ready stretched out his hand, though he re­mained few feet away, when a voice be­hind him said, “Hold it, Pot­ter.”

He skid­ded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and Goyle were stand­ing be­hind him, shoul­der to shoul­der, wands point­ing right at Har­ry. Through the small space be­tween their jeer­ing faces he saw Dra­co Mal­foy.

“That’s my wand you’re hold­ing, Pot­ter,” said Mal­foy, point­ing his own through the gap be­tween Crabbe and Goyle.

“Not any­more,” pant­ed Har­ry, tight­en­ing his grip on the hawthorn wand. “Win­ners, keep­ers, Mal­foy. Who’s lent you theirs?”

“My moth­er,” said Dra­co.

Har­ry laughed, though there was noth­ing very hu­mor­ous about the sit­ua­tion. He could not hear Ron or Hermione any­more. They seemed to have run out of earshot, search­ing for the di­adem.

“So how come you three aren’t with Volde­mort?” asked Har­ry.

“We’re gonna be re­ward­ed,” said Crabbe. His voice was sur­pris­ing­ly soft for such an enor­mous per­son: Har­ry had hard­ly ev­er heard him speak be­fore. Crabbe was speak­ing like a small child promised a large bag of sweets. “We ‘ung back, Pot­ter. We de­cid­ed not to go. De­cid­ed to bring you to ‘im.”

“Good plan,” said Har­ry in mock ad­mi­ra­tion. He could not be­lieve that he was this close, and was go­ing to be thwart­ed by Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle. He be­gan edg­ing slow­ly back­ward to­ward the place where the Hor­crux sat lop­sid­ed up­on the bust. If he could just get his hands on it be­fore the fight broke out . . .

“So how did you get in here?” he asked, try­ing to dis­tract them.

“I vir­tu­al­ly lived in the Room of Hid­den Things all last year,” said Mal­foy, his voice brit­tle. “I know how to get in.”

“We was hid­ing in the cor­ri­dor out­side,” grunt­ed Goyle. “We can do Diss-​lu­sion Charms now! And then,” his face split in­to a gorm­less grin, “you turned up right in front of us and said you was look­ing for a die-​dum! What’s a die-​dum?”

“Har­ry?” Ron’s voice echoed sud­den­ly from the oth­er side of the wall to Har­ry’s right. “Are you talk­ing to some­one?”

With a whip­like move­ment, Crabbe point­ed his wand at the fifty foot moun­tain of old fur­ni­ture, of bro­ken trunks, of old books and robes and uniden­ti­fi­able junk, and shout­ed, “De­scen­do!”

The wall be­gan to tot­ter, then the top third crum­bled in­to the aisle next door where Ron stood.

“Ron!” Har­ry bel­lowed, as some­where out of sight Hermione screamed, and Har­ry heard in­nu­mer­able ob­jects crash­ing to the floor on the oth­er side of the desta­bi­lized wall: He point­ed his wand at the ram­part, cried, “Fi­nite!” and it stead­ied.

“No!” shout­ed Mal­foy, stay­ing Crabbe’s arm as the lat­ter made to re­peat his spell. “If you wreck the room you might bury this di­adem thing!”

“What’s that mat­ter?” said Crabbe, tug­ging him­self free. “It’s Pot­ter the Dark Lord wants, who cares about a die-​dum?”

“Pot­ter came in here to get it,” said Mal­foy with ill-​dis­guised im­pa­tience at the slow-​wit­ted­ness of his col­leagues. “so that must mean –“

“’Must mean’?” Crabbe turned on Mal­foy with undis­guised fe­roc­ity. “Who cares what you think? I don’t take your or­ders no more, Dra­co. You an’ your dad are fin­ished.”

“Har­ry?” shout­ed Ron again, from the oth­er side of the junk wad. “What’s go­ing on?”

“Har­ry?” mim­icked Crabbe. “What’s go­ing on – no, Pot­ter! Cru­cio!”

Har­ry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe’s curse missed him but hit the stone bust, which flew in­to the air; the di­adem soared up­ward and then dropped out of sight in the mass of ob­jects on which the bust had rest­ed.

“STOP!” Mal­foy shout­ed at Crabbe, his voice echo­ing through the enor­mous room. “The Dark Lord wants him alive –“

“So? I’m not killing him, am I?” yelled Crabbe, throw­ing off Mal­foy’s re­strain­ing arm. “But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead any­way, what’s the diff – ?”

A jet of scar­let light shot past Har­ry by inch­es: Hermione had run around the cor­ner be­hind him and sent a Stun­ning Spell straight at Crabbe’s head. It on­ly missed be­cause Mal­foy pulled him out of the way.

“It’s that Mud­blood! Ava­da Ke­davra!”

Har­ry saw Hermione dive aside, and his fury that Crabbe had aimed to kill wiped all else from his mind. He shot a Stun­ning Spell at Crabbe, who lurched out of the way, knock­ing Mal­foy’s wand out of his hand; it rolled out of sight be­neath a moun­tain of bro­ken fur­ni­ture and bones.

“Don’t kill him! DON’T KILL HIM!” Mal­foy yelled at Crabbe and Goyle, who were both aim­ing at Har­ry: Their split sec­ond’s hes­ita­tion was all Har­ry need­ed.

“Ex­pel­liar­mus!”

Goyle’s wand flew out of his hand and dis­ap­peared in­to the bul­wark of ob­jects be­side him; Goyle leapt fool­ish­ly on the spot, try­ing to re­trieve it; Mal­foy jumped out of range of Hermione’s sec­ond Stun­ning Spell, and Ron, ap­pear­ing sud­den­ly at the end of the aisle, shot a full Body-​Bind Curse at Crabbe, which nar­row­ly missed.

Crabbe wheeled around and screamed, “Ava­da Ke­davra!” again. Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet of green light. The wand-​less Mal­foy cow­ered be­hind a three-​legged wardrobe as Hermione charged to­ward them, hit­ting Goyle with a Stun­ning Spell as she came.

“It’s some­where here!” Har­ry yelled at her, point­ing at the pile of junk in­to which the old tiara had fall­en. “Look for it while I go and help R –“

“HAR­RY!” she screamed.

A roar­ing, bil­low­ing noise be­hind him gave him a mo­ment’s warn­ing. He turned and saw both Ron and Crabbe run­ning as hard as they could up the aisle to­ward them.

“Like it hot, scum?” roared Crabbe as he ran.

But he seemed to have no con­trol over what he had done. Flames of ab­nor­mal size were pur­su­ing them, lick­ing up the sides of the junk bul­warks, which were crum­bling to soot at their touch.

“Agua­men­ti!” Har­ry bawled, but the jet of wa­ter that soared from the tip of his wand evap­orat­ed in the air.

“RUN!”

Mal­foy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crabbe out­stripped all of them, now look­ing ter­ri­fied; Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione pelt­ed along in his wake, and the fire pur­sued them. It was not nor­mal fire; Crabbe had used a curse of which Har­ry had no knowl­edge. As they turned a cor­ner the flames chased them as though they were alive, sen­tient, in­tent up­on killing them. Now the fire was mu­tat­ing, form­ing a gi­gan­tic pack of fiery beasts: Flam­ing ser­pents, chi­maeras, and drag­ons rose and fell and rose again, and the de­tri­tus of cen­turies on which they were feed­ing was thrown up in­to the air in­to their fanged mouths, tossed high on clawed feet, be­fore be­ing con­sumed by the in­fer­no.

Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle had van­ished from view: Har­ry, Ron and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery mon­sters were cir­cling them, draw­ing clos­er and clos­er, claws and horns and tails lashed, and the heat was sol­id as a wall around them.

“What can we do?” Hermione screamed over the deaf­en­ing roars of the fire. “What can we do?”

“Here!”

Har­ry seized a pair of heavy-​look­ing broom­sticks from the near­est pile of junk and threw one to Ron, who pulled Hermione on­to it be­hind him. Har­ry swung his leg over the sec­ond broom and, with hard kicks to the ground, they soared up in the air, miss­ing by feet the horned beak of a flam­ing rap­tor that snapped its jaws at them. The smoke and heat were be­com­ing over­whelm­ing: Be­low them the cursed fire was con­sum­ing the con­tra­band of gen­er­ations of hunt­ed stu­dents, the guilty out­comes of a thou­sand banned ex­per­iments, the se­crets of the count­less souls who had sought refuge in the room. Har­ry could­not see a trace of Mal­foy, Crabbe, or Goyle any­where. He swooped as low as he dare over the ma­raud­ing mon­sters of flame to try to find them, but there was noth­ing but fire: What a ter­ri­ble way to die. . . . He had nev­er want­ed this. . . .

“Har­ry, let’s get out, let’s get out!” bel­lowed Ron, though it was im­pos­si­ble to see where the door was through the black smoke.

And then Har­ry heard a thin, piteous hu­man scream from amidst the ter­ri­ble com­mo­tion, the thun­der of de­vour­ing flame.

“It’s – too – dan­ger­ous – !” Ron yelled, but Har­ry wheeled in the air. His glass­es giv­ing his eyes some small pro­tec­tion from the smoke, he raked the firestorm be­low, seek­ing a sign of life, a limb or a face that was not yet charred like wood. . . .

And he saw them: Mal­foy with his arms around the un­con­scious Goyle, the pair of them perched on a frag­ile tow­er of charred desks, and Har­ry dived. Mal­foy saw him com­ing and raised one arm, but even as Har­ry grasped it he knew at once that it was no good. Goyle was too heavy and Mal­foy’s hand, cov­ered in sweat, slid in­stant­ly out of Har­ry’s –

“IF WE DIE FOR THEM, I’LL KILL YOU, HAR­RY!” roared Ron’s voice, and, as a great flam­ing chi­maera bore down up­on them, he and Hermione dragged Goyle on­to their broom and rose, rolling and pitch­ing, in­to the air once more as Mal­foy clam­bered up be­hind Har­ry.

“The door, get to the door, the door!” screamed Mal­foy in Har­ry’s ear, and Har­ry sped up, fol­low­ing Ron, Hermione, and Goyle through the bil­low­ing black smoke, hard­ly able to breathe: and all around them the last few ob­jects un­burned by the de­vour­ing flames were flung in­to the air, as the crea­tures of the cursed fire cast them high in cel­ebra­tion: cups and shields, a sparkling neck­lace, and an old, dis­col­ored tiara –

“What are you do­ing, what are you do­ing, the door’s that way!” screamed Mal­foy, but Har­ry made a hair­pin swerve and dived. The di­adem seemed to fall in slow mo­tion, turn­ing and glit­ter­ing as it dropped to­ward the maw of a yawn­ing ser­pent, and then he had it, caught it around his wrist –

Har­ry swerved again as the ser­pent lunged at him; he soared up­ward and straight to­ward the place where, he prayed, the door stood open; Ron, Hermione and Goyle had van­ished; Mal­foy was scream­ing and hold­ing Har­ry so tight­ly it hurt. Then, through the smoke, Har­ry saw a rect­an­gu­lar patch on the wall and steered the broom at it, and mo­ments lat­er clean air filled his lungs and they col­lid­ed with the wall in the cor­ri­dor be­yond.

Mal­foy fell off the broom and lay face­down, gasp­ing, cough­ing, and retch­ing. Har­ry rolled over and sat up: The door to the Room of Re­quire­ment had van­ished, and Ron and Hermione sat pant­ing on the floor be­side Goyle, who was still un­con­scious.

“C-​Crabbe,” choked Mal­foy as soon as he could speak. “C-​Crabbe . . .”

“He’s dead,” said Ron harsh­ly.

There was si­lence, apart from pant­ing and cough­ing. Then a num­ber of huge bangs shook the cas­tle, and a great cav­al­cade of trans­par­ent fig­ures gal­loped past on hors­es, their heads scream­ing with blood­lust un­der their arms. Har­ry stag­gered to his feet when the Head­less Hunt had passed and looked around: The bat­tle was still go­ing on all around him. He could hear more scream than those of the re­treat­ing ghosts. Pan­ic flared with­in him.

“Where’s Gin­ny?” he said sharply. “She was here. She was sup­posed to be go­ing back in­to the Room of Re­quire­ment.”

“Blimey, d’you reck­on it’ll still work af­ter that fire?” asked Ron, but he too got to his feet, rub­bing his chest and look­ing left and right. “Shall we split up and look – ?”

“No,” said Hermione, get­ting to her feet too. Mal­foy and Goyle re­mained slumped hope­less­ly on the cor­ri­dor floor; nei­ther of them had wands. “Let’s stick to­geth­er. I say we go – Har­ry, what’s that on your arm?”

“What? Oh yeah –“

He pulled the di­adem from his wrist and held it up. It was still hot, black­ened with soot, but as he looked at it close­ly he was just able to make out the tiny words etched up­on it; WIT BE­YOND MEA­SURE IS MAN’S GREAT­EST TREA­SURE.

A blood­like sub­stance, dark and tar­ry, seemed to be leak­ing from the di­adem. Sud­den­ly Har­ry felt the thing vi­brate vi­olent­ly, then break apart in his hands, and as it did so, he thought he heard the faintest, most dis­tant scream of pain, echo­ing not from the grounds or the cas­tle, but from the thing that had just frag­ment­ed in his fin­gers.

“It must have been Fiend­fyre!” whim­pered Hermione, her eyes on the bro­ken piece.

“Sor­ry?”

“Fiend­fyre – cursed fire – it’s one of the sub­stances that de­stroy Hor­crux­es, but I would nev­er, ev­er have dared use it, it’s so dan­ger­ous – how did Crabbe know how to – ?”

“Must’ve learned from the Car­rows,” said Har­ry grim­ly.

“Shame he wasn’t con­cen­trat­ing when they men­tioned how to stop it, re­al­ly,” said Ron, whose hair, like Hermione’s, was singed, and whose face was black­ened. “If he hadn’t tried to kill us all, I’d be quite sor­ry he was dead.”

“But don’t you re­al­ize?” whis­pered Hermione. “This means, if we can just get the snake –“

But she broke off as yells and shouts and the un­mis­tak­able nois­es of du­el­ing filled the cor­ri­dor. Har­ry looked around and his heart seemed to fail: Death Eaters had pen­etrat­ed Hog­warts. Fred and Per­cy had just backed in­to view, both of them du­el­ing masked and hood­ed men.

Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione ran for­ward to help: Jets of light flew in ev­ery di­rec­tion and the man du­el­ing Per­cy backed off, fast: Then his hood slipped and they saw a high fore­head and streaked hair –

“Hel­lo, Min­is­ter!” bel­lowed Per­cy, send­ing a neat jinx straight at Thick­nesse, who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his robes, ap­par­ent­ly in aw­ful dis­com­fort. “Did I men­tion I’m re­sign­ing?”

“You’re jok­ing, Perce!” shout­ed Fred as the Death Eater he was bat­tling col­lapsed un­der the weight of three sep­arate Stun­ning Spells. Thick­nesse had fall­en to the ground with tiny spikes erupt­ing all over him; he seemed to be turn­ing in­to some form of sea urchin. Fred looked at Per­cy with glee.

“You ac­tu­al­ly are jok­ing, Perce. . . . I don’t think I’ve heard you joke since you were –“

The air ex­plod­ed. They had been grouped to­geth­er, Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, Fred, and Per­cy, the two Death Eaters at their feet, one Stunned, the oth­er Trans­fig­ured; and in that frag­ment of a mo­ment, when dan­ger seemed tem­porar­ily at bay, the world was rent apart, Har­ry felt him­self fly­ing through the air, and all he could do was hold as tight­ly as pos­si­ble to that thin stick of wood that was his one and on­ly weapon, and shield his head in his arms: He heard the screams and yells of his com­pan­ions with­out a hope of know­ing what had hap­pened to them –

And then the world re­solved it­self in­to pain and semi­dark­ness: He was half buried in the wreck­age of a cor­ri­dor that had been sub­ject­ed to a ter­ri­ble at­tack. Cold air told him that the side of the cas­tle had been blown away, and hot stick­iness on his cheek told him that he was bleed­ing co­pi­ous­ly. Then he heard a ter­ri­ble cry that pulled at his in­sides, that ex­pressed agony of a kind nei­ther flame nor curse could cause, and he stood up, sway­ing, more fright­ened than he had been that day, more fright­ened, per­haps, than he had been in his life. . . .

And Hermione was strug­gling to her feet in the wreck­age, and three red­head­ed men were grouped on the ground where the wall had blast­ed apart. Har­ry grabbed Hermione’s hand as they stag­gered and stum­bled over stone and wood.

“No – no – no!” some­one was shout­ing. “No! Fred! No!”

And Per­cy was shak­ing his broth­er, and Ron was kneel­ing be­side them, and Fred’s eyes stared with­out see­ing, the ghost of his last laugh still etched up­on his face.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO


THE EL­DER WAN



The world had end­ed, so why had the bat­tle not ceased, the cas­tle fall­en silent in hor­ror, and ev­ery com­bat­ant laid down their arms? Har­ry's mind was in free fall, spin­ning out of con­trol, un­able to grasp the im­pos­si­bil­ity, be­cause Fred Weasley could not be dead, the ev­idence of all his sens­es must be ly­ing-- And then a body fell past the hole blown in­to the side of the school and curs­es flew in at them from the dark­ness, hit­ting the wall be­hind their heads.

“Get down!” Har­ry shout­ed, as more curs­es flew through the night: He and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor, but Per­cy lay across Fred's body, shield­ing it from fur­ther har­rm, and when Har­ry shout­ed “Per­cy, come on, we've got to move!” he shook his head. “Per­cy!” Har­ry saw tear tracks streak­ing the grime coat­ing ron's face as he sezied his el­der broth­er's shoul­ders and pulled, but Per­cy would not budge.

“Per­cy, you can't do any­thing for him! We're go­ing to--”

Hermione screamed, and Har­ry, turn­ing, did not need to ask why. A mon­strous spi­der the size of a small car was try­ing to climb through the huge hole in the wall. one of Ar­agog's de­scen­dants had joined the fight. Ron and Har­ry shout­ed to­geth­er; their spells col­lid­ed and the mon­ster was blown back­ward, its legs jerk­ing hor­ri­bly, and van­ished in­to the dark­ness. “It brought friends!” Har­ry called to the oth­ers, glanc­ing over the edge of the cas­tle through the hole in the wall the curs­es had blast­ed. More gi­ant spi­ders were climb­ing the side of the build­ing, lib­er­at­ed from the For­bid­den For­est, in­to which the Death Eaters must have pen­etrat­ed. Har­ry fired Stun­ning Spells down up­on them, knock­ing the lead mon­ster in­to its fel­lows, so that they rolled back down the build­ing and out of sight. Then more curs­es came soar­ing over Har­ry's head, so close he felt the force of them blow his hair. “Let's move, NOW!”

Push­ing Hermione ahead of him with ron, Har­ry stooped to seize Fred's body un­der the armpit. Per­cy, re­al­iz­ing what Har­ry was try­ing to do, stopped cling­ing to the body and helped: to­geth­er, crouch­ing low to avoid the curs­es fly­ing at them from the grounds, they hauled Fred out of the way. “Here,” said Har­ry, and they placed him in a niche where a suit of ar­mor had stood ear­li­er. He could not bear to look at Fred a sec­ond longer than he had to, and af­ter mak­ing sure that the body was well- hid­den, he took off af­ter ron and Hermione.

Mal­foy and Goyle had van­ished but at the end of the cor­ri­dor, which was now full of dust and falling ma­son­ry, glass long gone from win­dows, he saw many peo­ple run­ning back­ward and for­ward, whether friends or foes he could not tell. Round­ing the cor­ner, Per­cy let out a bull-​like roar: “ROOK­WOOD!” and sprint­ed off in the di­rec­tion of a tall man, who was pur­su­ing a cou­ple of stu­dents. “Har­ry, in here!” Hermione screamed. She had pulled Ron be­hind a tapestry.

They seemed to be wrestling to­geth­er, and for one mad sec­ond Har­ry thought that they were em­brac­ing again; then hhe saw that Hermione was try­ing to re­strain Ron, to stop him run­ning af­ter Per­cy. “Lis­ten to me--LIS­TEN RON!” “I wan­na help--I wan­na kill Death Eaters--”

His face was con­tort­ed, smeared with dust and smoke, and he was shak­ing with rage and grief. “ron, we're the on­ly ones who can end it! Please--ron--we need the snake, we've got to kill the snake!” said Hermione. But Har­ry knew how Ron felt: Pur­su­ing an­oth­er Hor­crux could not bring the sat­is­fac­tion of re­venge; he too want­ed to fight, to pun­ish them, the peo­ple who had killed Fred, and he want­ed to find the oth­er Weasleys, and above all make sure, make quite sure, that Gin­ny was not--but he could not per­mit that idea to form in his mind-- “We will fight!” Hermione said. “We'll have to, to reach the snake! But let's not lose sight now of what we're sup­posed to be d-​do­ing! We're the on­ly ones who can end it!” She was cry­ing too, and she wiped her face on her torn and singed sleeve as she spoke, but she took great heav­ing breaths to calm her­self as, still keep­ing a tight hold on ron, she turned to Har­ry. “You need to find out where Volde­mort is, be­cause he'll have the snake with him, won't he? Do it, Har­ry--look in­side him!” Why was it so easy? Be­cause his scar had been burn­ing for hours, yearn­ing to show him Volde­mort's thoughts?

He closed his eyes on her com­mand, and at once, the screams and bangs and all the dis­cor­dant sounds of the bat­tle were drowned un­til they be­came dis­tant, as though he stood far, far away from them... He was stand­ing in the mid­dle of a des­olate but strange­ly fa­mil­iar room, with peel­ing pa­per on the walls and all the win­dows board­ed up ex­cept for one.

The sounds of the as­sault on the cas­tle were muf­fled and dis­tant. The sin­gle un­blocked win­dow re­vealed dis­tant bursts of light where the cas­tle stood, but in­side the room was dark ex­cept for a soli­tary oil lamp. He was rolling his wand be­tween his fign­ers, watch­ing it, his thoughts on the room in the cas­tle, the se­cret room on­ly he had ev­er found, the room, like the cham­ber, that you had to be clever and cun­ning and in­quis­itive to dis­cov­er...He was con­fi­dent that the boy would not find the di­adem...al­though Dum­ble­dore's pup­pet had come much far­ther than he ev­er ex­pect­ed...too far... “My Lord,” said a voice, des­per­ate and cracked. He turned: there was Lu­cius Mal­foy sit­ting in the dark­est cor­ner, ragged and still bear­ing the marks of the pun­ish­ment he had re­ceived af­ter the boy's last es­cape. One of his eyes re­mained closed and puffy. “My Lord...please...my son...” “If your son is dead, Lu­cius, it is not my fault. He did not come and join me, like the rest of the Slytherins. Per­haps he has de­cid­ed to be­friend Har­ry Pot­ter?” “No--nev­er,” whis­pered Mal­foy. “You must hope not.” “Aren't--aren't you afraid, my Lord that Pot­ter might die at an­oth­er hand but yours?” asked Mal­foy, his voice shak­ing. “Wouldn't it be...for­give me...more pru­dent to call off this bat­tle, en­ter the cas­tle, and seek him y-​your­self?” "Do not pre­tend Lu­cius.

You wish the bat­tle to cease so that you can dis­cov­er what has hap­pened to your son. And i do not need to seek Pot­ter. Be­fore the night is out, Pot­ter will have come to find me.“ Volde­mort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fin­gers. It trou­bled him...and those things that trou­bled Lord Volde­mort need­ed to be re­ar­ranged... ”Go and fetch Snape.“ ”Snape, m-​my Lord?“ ”Snape. Now. I need him.

There is a --ser­vice--I re­quire from him. Go.“ Fright­ened, stum­bling a lit­tle through the gloom, Lu­cius left the room. Vodle­mort con­tin­ued to stand there, twirling the wand be­tween his fin­gers, star­ing at it. ”It is the on­ly way, Nagi­ni,“ he whis­pered, and he looked around, and there was the great thick snake, now sus­pend­ed in midair, twist­ing grace­ful­ly with­in the en­chant­ed, pro­tect­ed space he had made for her, a star­ry, trans­par­ent sphere some­where be­tween a glit­ter­ing cage and a tank. With a gasp, Har­ry pulled back and opened his yees at the same mo­ment his ears were as­sault­ed with the screech­es and cries, the smash­es and bangs of bat­tle. ”He's in the Shriek­ing Shack. The snake's with him, it's got some sort of mag­ical pro­tec­tion around it. He's just sent Lu­cius Mal­foy to find Snape.“ ”volde­mort's sit­ting in the shriek­ing Shack?“ said Hermione, out­raged. ”He's not--he's not even FIGHT­ING?“ ”He doesn't think he needs to fight,“ said Har­ry. ”He thinks I'm go­ing to go to him.“ ”But why?“ ”He knows I'm af­ter Hor­crux­es--he's keep­ing Nagi­ni close be­side him- -ob­vi­ous­ly I'm go­ing to have to go to him to get near the thing--“ ”Right,“ said Ron, squar­ing his shoul­ders. ”So you can't go, that's what he wants, what he's ex­pect­ing.

You stay here and look af­ter Hermione, and I'll go and get it--“ Har­ry cut across Ron. ”You two stay here, I'll go un­der the Cloak and I'll be back as soon as I--“ ”No,“ said Hermione,, ”it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak and--“ ”Don't even think about it,“ Ron snarled at her. be­fore Hermione could get far­ther than ”Ron, I'm just as ca­pa­ble -- “ the tapestry at the top of the stair­case on which they stood was ripped open. ”POT­TER!“ Two masked Death Eaters stood there, but even be­fore their wands were ful­ly raised, Hermione shout­ed ”Glis­seo!" The stairs be­neath their feet flat­te­need in­to a chute and she, Har­ry, and Ron hur­tled down it, un­able to con­trol their speed but so fast that the Death Eaters' Stun­ning Spells flew far over their heads.

They shot through the con­ceal­ing tapestry at the bot­tom and spun on­to the floor, hit­ting the op­po­site wall. “Duro!” cried Hermione, point­ing her wand at the tapestry, and there were two loud, sick­en­ing crunch­es as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death Eaters pur­su­ing them crum­pled against it. “Get back!” shout­ed Ron, and he, Har­ry, and Hermione hurled them­selves against a door as a herd of gal­lop­ing desks thun­dered past, shep­herdd by a sprint­ing Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall. She ap­peared not to no­tice them. Her hair had come down and there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the cor­ner, they heard her scream, “CHARGE!” “Har­ry, you get the Cloak on,” said Hermione. “Nev­er mind us--” But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were he doubt­ed any­one would see their dis­em­bod­ied feet through the dust that clogged the air, the falling stone, the shim­mer of spells. they ran down the next stair­case and found them­selves in a cor­ri­dor full of du­el­ers.

The por­traits on ei­ther side of the fight­ers were crammed with fig­ures scream­ing ad­vice and en­cour­age­ment, while Death Eaters, both masked and un­masked, du­eled stu­dents and teach­ers. Dean had won him­self a wand, for he was face-​to-​face with Dolo­hov, Par­vati with Travers.

Har­ry, ron and Hermione raised their wands at once, ready to strike, but the du­el­ers were weav­ing and dart­ing so much that there was a strong like­li­hood of hurt­ing on of their own side if they cast curs­es. Even as they stood braced, look­ing for the op­por­tu­ni­ty to act, there came a great “Wheeeeee!” and look­ing up, Har­ry saw Peeves zoomign over them, drop­ping Snar­galuff pods down on­to the Death Eaters, whose heads were sud­den­ly en­gulfed in wrig­gling green tu­bers like fat worms. “ARGH!” A fist­ful of tu­bers had hit the Cloak over Ron's head; the damp green roots were sus­pend­ed im­prob­ably in midair as Ron tried to shake them loose.

“Some­one's in­vis­ible there!” shout­ed a masked Death Eater, point­ing. Dean made the most of the Death Eater's mo­men­tary dis­trac­tion, knock­ing him out with a stun­ning Spell; Dolo­hov at­tempt­ed to re­tal­iate, and Par­vati shot a Body Bind Curse at him. “LET'S GO!” Har­ry yelled, and he, Ron, and Hermione gath­ered the Cloak tight­ly around them­selves and pelt­ed, heads down, through the midst of the fight­ers, slip­ping a lit­tle in pools of Snar­galuff juice, to­ward the top of the mar­ble stair­case in­to the en­trance hall. “I'm Dra­co Mal­foy, I'm Dra­co, I'm on your side!” Dra­co was on the up­per land­ing, plead­ing with an­ot­er masked Death Eater.

Har­ry Stunned the Death Eater as they passed. Mal­foy looked around, beam­ing, for his sav­ior, and Ron punched him from un­der the Cloak. Mal­foy fell back­ward on top of the Death Eater, his mouth bleed­ing, ut­ter­ly be­mused. “And that's the sec­ond time we've saved your life tonight, you two- faced bas­tard!” Ron yelled. There were more du­el­ers all over the stairs and in the hall. Death Eaters ev­ery­where Har­ry looked: Yax­ley, close to the front doors, in com­bat with Flitwick, a masked Death Eater du­el­ing Kings­ley right be­side them.

Stu­dents ran in ev­ery di­rec­tion; some car­ry­ing or drag­ging in­jured friends. Har­ry di­rect­ed a Stunnning Spell to­ward the masked Death Eater; it missed but near­ly hit Neville, who had emerged from nowhere bran­dish­ing arm­fuls of Ven­omous Ten­tac­ula, which looped it­self hap­pi­ly around the near­est Death Eater and be­gan reel­ing him in. Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione sped won the mar­ble stair­case: glass shat­tered on the left, and the Slytherin hour­glass that had record­ed House points spilled its emer­alds ev­ery­where, so that peo­ple slipped and stag­gered as they ran. Two bod­ies fell from the bal­cony over­head as they reached the ground a gray blur that Har­ry took for an an­imal sped four-​legged across the hall to sink its teeth in­to one of the fall­en.

“NO!” shrieked Hermione, and with a deaf­en­ing blast from her wand, Fen­rir Grey­back was thrown back­ward from the fee­bly strug­gling body of Laven­der Brown. He hit the mar­ble ban­is­ters and strug­gled to re­turn to his feet. Then, with a bright white flash and a crack, a crys­tal ball fell on top of his head, and he crum­pled to the ground and did not move. “I have more!” shrieked Pro­fes­sor Trelawney from over the ban­is­ters. “More for any who want them! Here--”

And with a move likea ten­nis serve, she heaved an­oth­er enor­mous crys­tal sphere from her bag, waved her wand through the air, and caused the ball to speed across the hall and smash through a win­dow. At the same mo­ment, the heavy wood­en front doors burst open, and more of the gi­gan­tic spi­ders forced their way in­to the front hall. Screams of ter­ror rent the air: the fight­ers scat­tered, Death Eaters and Hog­wartians alike, and red and green jets of light flew in­to the midst of the on­com­ing mon­sters, which shud­dered and reared, more ter­ri­fy­ing than ev­er.

“How do we get out?” yelled ron over all the scream­ing, but be­fore ei­ther Har­ry or Hermione could an­swer they were bowled aside; Ha­grid had come thun­der­ing down the stairs, bran­dish­ing his flow­ery pink um­brel­la. “Don't hurt 'em, don't hurt 'em!” he yelled. “HA­GRID, NO!” Har­ry for­got ev­ery­thing else: he sprint­ed out from un­der the cloak, run­ning bent dou­ble to avoid the curs­es il­lu­mi­nat­ing the whole hall. “HA­GRID, COME BACK!”

But he was not even halfway to Ha­grid when he saw it hap­pen: Ha­grid van­ished amongst the spi­ders, and with a great scur­ry­ing, a foul swarm­ing move­ment, they re­treat­ed un­der the on­slaught of spells, Ha­grid buried in their midst. “HA­GRID!”

Har­ry heard some­one call­ing his own name, whether friend or foe he did not care: He was springint down the front steps in­to the dark grounds, and the spi­ders were swarm­ing away with their prey, and he could see noth­ing of Ha­grid at all. “HA­GRID!” He thought he could make out an enor­mous arm wav­ing from the mdist of the spi­der swarm, but as he made to chase af­ter them, his way was im­ped­ed by a mon­umen­tal foot, which swung down out of the dark­ness and made the ground on which he stood shud­der.

He looked up: A gi­ant stood be­fore him, twen­ty feet high, its head ihid­den in shad­ow, noth­ing but its tree­like, hairy shins il­lu­mi­nat­ed by light from the cas­tle doors. With one bru­tal, flu­id move­ment, it smashed a mas­sive fist through an up­per win­dow, and glass rained down up­on Har­ryk, forc­ing him back un­der the shel­ter of the door­way. “Oh my--!” shrieked Hermione, as she and ron caught up with Har­ry and gazed up­ward at the gi­ant now try­ing to seize peo­ple through the win­dow above.

“DON'T!” ron yelled, grab­bing Hermione's hand as she raised her wand. “Stun him and he'll crush half the cas­tle--” “HAG­GER?” Grawp came lurch­ing around the cor­ner of the cas­tle; on­ly dnow did Har­ry re­alzie that Grawp was, in­deed, an un­der­sized gi­ant. The gar­gan­tu­an mon­ster try­ing to crush peo­ple on the up­per floors turned around and let out a ro­rar. The stone steps treme­bled as he stomped to­ward his small­er kin, and Grawp's lop­sid­ed mouth fell open, show­ing yel­low, half brick-​sized teeth; and then they launched them­selves at each oth­er with the sav­agery of li­ons. “RUN!” Har­ry roared; the ngi­ht was full of hideous yells and blows as the gi­ants wres­tled, and he seized Hermione's hand and tore down the steps in­to the grounds, Ron bring­ing up the rear. Har­ry had not lost hope of find­ing and sav­ing Ha­grid; he ran so fast that they were halfway to­ward the for­est be­fore they were brought up short again.

The air around them had frozen: Har­ry's breath caught and so­lid­ified in his chest. Shapes moved out in the dark­ness, swirling fig­ures of con­cen­trat­ed black­ness, mov­ing in a great wave to­wards the cas­tles, their faces hood­ed and their breath rat­tling... ron and Hermione closed in be­side him as the sounds of fight­ing be­hind them grew sud­den­ly mut­ed, dead­ened, be­cause a si­lence on­ly de­men­tors could bring was falling thick­ly through the night, and Fred was gone, and Ha­grid was su­ure­ly dy­ing or al­ready dead... “come on, Har­ry!” said Hermione's voice from a very long way away. “Pa­tronus­es, Har­ry, come on!” he raised his wand, but a dull hope­less­ness was spread­ing through­out him: How many more lay dead that he did not yet know about? He felt as though his soul had al­ready half left his body.... “HAR­RY, COME ON!” screamed Hermione. A hun­dred de­men­tors were ad­vanc­ing, glid­ing to­ward them, suck­ing their way clos­er to Har­ry's de­spair, which was like a promise of a feast... He saw Ron's sil­ver ter­ri­er burst in­to the air, flick­er fee­bly, and ex­pire; he saw Hermione's ot­ter twist in midair and fade, and his own wand trem­bled in his hand, and he al­most wel­comed the on­com­ing obliv­ion, the promise of noth­ing, of no feel­ing... And then a sil­ver hare, a boar, and fox soared past Har­ry, Ron, and Hermione's heads: the de­men­tors fell back be­fore the crea­tures' ap­proach. Three more peo­ple had ar­rived out of the dark­ness to stand be­side them, their wands out­stretched, con­tin­uing to cast Pa­tronus­es: Lu­na, Ernie, and Sea­mus. “That's right,” said Lu­na en­cour­ag­ing­ly, as if they were back in the Room of Re­quire­ment and this was sim­ply spell prac­tice for the D.A., “That's right, Har­ry...come on think of some­thing hap­py...” 'some­thing hap­py?“ he said, his voice cracked. ”We're all still here,“ she whis­pered, ”we;re still fight­ing. Come on, now....“ There was a sil­ver spark, then a wa­ver­ing light, and then, with the great­est ef­fort it had ev­er cost him the stag burst from the end of Har­ry's wand. It can­tered for­ward, and now the de­men­tors scat­tered in earnest, and im­me­di­ate­ly the night was mild again, but the sounds of the sur­round­ing bat­tle were loud in his ears. ”Can't thank you enough,“ said ron shak­ily, turn­ing to Lu­na, Ernie, and Sea­mus ”you just saved--“ With a roar and an earth-​quak­ing tremor, an­oth­er gi­ant came lurch­ing out of the dark­ness from the di­rec­tion of the for­est, bran­dish­ing a club taller than any of them. ”RUN!“ Har­ry shout­ed again, but the oth­ers need­ed no telling; They all scat­tered, and not a sec­ond too soon, for the next mo­ment the crea­ture's vast foot had fall­en ex­act­ly where they had been stand­ing. Har­ry looked round: ron and Hermione were fol­low­ing him, but the oth­er three had van­ished back in­to the bat­tle. ”Let's get out of range!" yelled Ron as the gi­ant swung its club again and its bel­lows echoed through the night, across the grounds we­here bursts of red and green light con­tin­ued to il­lu­mi­nate the dark­ness.

“The Whomp­ing wil­low,” said Har­ry, “go!” Some­how he walled it all up in his mind, crammed it in­to a small space in­to which he could not look now: thoughts of Fred and Ha­grid, and his ter­ror for all the peo­ple he loved, scat­tered in and out­side the cas­tle, must all wait, be­cause they had to run, had to reach the snake and Volde­mort, be­cause that was, as Hermione said, the on­ly way to end it-- He sprint­ed, half-​be­liev­ing he could out­dis­tance death it­self, ig­nor­ing the jets of light fly­ing in the dark­ness all around him, and the sound of hte lake crash­ing like the sea, and the creak­ing of the For­bid­den For­est though the night was wind­less; through grounds that seemed them­selves to have risen in re­bel­lion, he ran faster than he had ev­er moved in his life, and it was he who saw the great tree first, the Wil­low that pro­tect­ed the se­cret at its roots with whip­like, slash­ing branch­es. Pant­ing and gasp­ing, Har­ry slowed down, skirt­ing the wil­low's swip­ing branch­es, peer­ing through the dark­ness to­ward its tick trunk, try­ing to see the sin­gle knot in the bark of the old tree that would par­alyze it. Ron and Hermione caught up, Hermione so out of breath that she could not speak. “How--how're we go­ing to get in?” pant­ed ron. “I can--see the palce- -if we jsut had--Crook­shanks again--” “Crook­shanks?” wheezed Hermione, bent dou­ble, clutch­ing her chest. “Are you a wiz­ard, or what?” “Oh--right--yeah--” Ron looked around, then di­rect­ed his wand at a twig on the ground and said “Winguardi­um Leviosa!” The twig flew up from the gruond, spun through the air as if caught by a gust of wind, then zoomed di­rect­ly at the trunk through the Wil­low's omi­nous­ly sway­ing branch­es. It jabbed at a place near the roots, and at once, the writhing tree be­came still. “Per­fect!” pant­ed Hermione. “Wait.” For one tee­ter­ing sec­ond, while the crash­es and booms of the bat­tle filled the air, Har­ry hes­itat­ed. Volde­mort want­ed him to do this, want­ed him to come...Was he lead­ing Ron and Hermione in­to a trap? But the re­al­ity seemed to close up­on him, cru­el and plain: the on­ly way for­ward was to kill the snake, and the snake was where Volde­mort was, and volde­mort was at the end of this tun­nel... “Har­ry, we're com­ing, just get in there!” said Ron, push­ing him for­ward. Har­ry wrig­gled in­to the earthy pas­sage hid­den in the tree's roots. It was a much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had en­tered it. The tun­nel was low-​ceilinged: they had had to dou­ble up to move throuhgh it near­ly four years pre­vi­ous­ly; now there was noth­ing for it but to crawl. Har­ry went first, his wand il­lu­mi­nat­ed, ex­pect­ing at any mo­ment to meet bar­ri­ers, but none came. They moved in si­lence, Har­ry's gaze fixed up­on the swing­ing beam of the wand held in his fist. At last, the tun­nel be­gan to slope up­ward and Har­ry saw a sliv­er of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his an­kle. “The Cloak!” she whis­pered. “Put the Cloak on!”

He groped be­hind him and she forced the bun­dle of slip­pery cloth in­to his free hand. With dif­fi­cul­ty he dragged it over him­self, murmered, “Nox,” ex­tin­guish­ing his wan­dlight, and con­tin­ued on his hands and knees, as silent­ly as pos­si­ble, all his sens­es strain­ing, ex­pect­ing ev­ery sec­ond to be dis­cov­ered, to hear a cold clear voice, see a flash of green light. and then he heard voic­es com­ing from the room di­rect­ly ahead of them, on­ly slight­ly muf­fled by the fact that the open­ing at the en­do fht etu­un­nel had been blocked up by what looked like an old crate. Hard­ly dar­ing to breathe, Har­ry edged right up tot he open­ing and peered through a tiny gap left be­tween crate and wall. The room be­yond was dim­ly lit, but he could see Nagi­ni, swirlign and coil­ing like a ser­pent un­der­wa­ter, safe in her en­chant­ed, star­ry sphere, which float­ed un­sup­port­ed in midair. He could see the edge of a ta­ble, and a long-​fin­gered white hand toy­ing with a wand. Then Snape spoke, and Har­ry's heart lurched: Snape was inch­es away from where he crouched, hid­den. “...my Lord, their re­sis­tance is crum­bling--” “--and it is do­ing so with­out your help,” said Volde­mort in his high, clear voice. "Skilled wiz­ard though you are, Severus, I do not think you will make much dif­fer­ence now.

We are al­most there...al­most.“ ”Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Pot­ter. I know I can find him, my Lord. Please.“ Snape strode past the gap, and Har­ry drew back a lit­tle, keep­ing his eyes fixed up­on Nagi­ni, won­der­ing whether there was any spell that might pen­etrate the pro­tec­tion sur­round­ing her, but he could not think of any­thing. One failed at­tempt, and he would give away his po­si­tion... Volde­mort stood up. Har­ry could see him now, see the red eyes, the flat­tened, ser­pen­tine face, the pal­lor of him gleam­ing slight­ly in the semi­dark­ness. ”I have a prob­lem, Severus,“ said Volde­mort soft­ly. ”My Lord?" said Snape.

Volde­mort raised the El­der Wand, hold­ing it as del­icate­ly and pre­cise­ly as a con­duc­tor's ba­ton. “Why doesn't it work for me, Severus?” In the si­lence Har­ry imag­ined he could hear the snake hiss­ing slight­ly as it coiled and un­coiled--or was it Volde­mort's sibi­lant sigh lin­ger­ing on the air? “My--my lord?” said Snape blankly. “I do not un­der­stand. You--you have per­formed ex­traor­di­nary mag­ic with that wand.” “No,” said Volde­mort. “I have per­formed my usu­al mag­ic. I am ex­traor­di­nary, but this wand...no. It has not re­vealed the won­ders it has promised. I feel no dif­fer­ence be­tween this wand and the one I pro­cured from Ol­li­van­der all those years ago.” Volde­mort's tone was mus­ing, calm, but Har­ry's scar had be­gun to throb and pulse: Pain was build­ing in his fore­head, and he could feel that con­trolled sense of fury build­ing in­side Volde­mort. “No dif­fer­ence,” said Volde­mort again. Snape did not speak. Har­ry could not see his face. He won­dered whether Snape sensed dan­ger, was try­ing to find the right words to re­as­sure his mas­ter. Volde­mort start­ed to move around the room: Har­ry lost sight of him for sec­onds as he prowled, speak­ing in that same mea­sured voice, while the pain and fury mount­ed in Har­ry. “I have thought long and hard, Severus...do you know why I have called you back from bat­tle?” And for a mo­ment Har­ry saw Snape's pro­file. His eyes were fixed up­on the coil­ing snake in its en­chant­ed cage. “No, my Lord, but I beg you will let me re­turn. Let me find Pot­ter.” "You sound like Lu­cius. Nei­ther of you un­der­stands Pot­ter as I do. He does not need find­ing.

Pot­ter will come to me. I knew his weak­ness you see, his one great flaw. He will hate watch­ing the oth­ers struck down around him, kn­wo­ing that it is for him that it hap­pens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will come.“ ”But my Lord, he might be killed ac­ci­den­tal­ly by some­one oth­er than your­self--“\ ”My in­struc­tions to the Death Eaters have been per­fect­ly clear. Cap­ture Pot­ter. Kill his friends--the more, the bet­ter--but do not kill him. “But it is of you that I wished to speak, Severus, not Har­ry Pot­ter. You have been very valu­able to me. Very valu­able.” “My Lord knows I seek on­ly to serve him. But--let me go and find the boy, my Lord. Let me bring him to you. I know I can--” “I have told you, no!” said Volde­mort, and Har­ry caught the lgint of red in his eyes as he turned again, and the swish­ing of his cloak was like the slith­er­ing of a snake, and he felt Volde­mort's im­pa­tience in his burn­ing scar. “My con­cern at the mo­ment, Severus, is what will hap­pen when I fi­nal­ly meet the boy!” “My Lord, there can be no ques­tion, sure­ly--?” “--but there is a ques­tion, Severus. There is.” Volde­mort halt­ed, and Har­ry could see him plain­ly again as he slid the El­der Wand through his white fin­gers, star­ing at Snape.

“Why did both the wands I have used fail when di­rect­ed at Har­ry Pot­ter?” “I--I can­not an­swer that, my Lord.” “Can't you?” The stab of rage felt like a spike driv­en through Har­ry's head: he forced his own fist in­to his mouth to stop him­self from cry­ing out in pain. He closed his eyes, and sud­den­ly he was Volde­mort, look­ing in­to Snape's pale face. “My wand of yew did ev­ery­thing of which I asked it, Severus, ex­cept to kill Har­ry Pot­ter. Twice it failed. Ol­li­van­der told me un­der tor­ture of the twin cores, told me to take an­oth­er's wand. I did so, but Lu­cius's wand shat­tered up­on meet­ing Pot­ter's.” “I--I have no ex­pla­na­tion, my Lord.” Snape was not look­ing at Volde­mort now. His dark eyes were still fixed up­on the coil­ing ser­pent in its pro­tec­tive sphere. “I sought a third wand, Severus. the El­der Wand, the Wand of Des­tiny, the Death­stick. I took it from its pre­vi­ous mas­ter. I took it from the gr­fave of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore.” And now Snape looked at Volde­mort, and Snape's face was like a death mask. it was mar­ble white and so still that when he spoke, it was a shock to see that any­one lived be­hind the blank eyes. “My Lord--let me go to the boy--” “all this long night when I am on the brink of vic­to­ry, I have sat here,” said Volde­mort, his voice bare­ly loud­er than a whis­per, “won­der­ing, won­der­ing, why the El­der Wand re­fus­es to be what it ought to be, re­fus­es to per­form as leg­end says it must per­form for its right­ful own­er...and I think I have the an­swer.” Snape did not speak. “Per­haps you al­ready know it? You are a clever man, af­ter all, Severus. You have been a good and faith­ful ser­vant, and I re­gret what must hap­pen.” “My Lord--” "The El­der Wand can­not serve me prop­er­ly, Severus, be­cause I am not its true mas­ter.

The El­der Wand be­longs to the wiz­ard who killed its last own­er. You killed Al­bus Dum­ble­dore. While you live, Severus, the El­der Wand can­not tru­ly be mine.“ ”My Lord!“ Snape protest­ed, rais­ing his wand. ”It can­not be any oth­er way,“ said Volde­mort. ”I must mas­ter the wand, Severus. Mas­ter the wand, and I mas­ter Pot­ter at last.“ And Volde­mort swiped the air with the El­der Wand. It did noth­ing to Sanpe, who for a split sec­ond seemed to think he had been re­prieved: but then Volde­mort's in­ten­tion be­came clear. The snake's cage was rolling through the air, and be­fore Snape could do any­thing more than yell, it had en­cased him, head and shoul­ders, and Volde­mort spoke in Parsel­tongue. ”Kill.“ There was a ter­ri­ble scream. Har­ry saw Snape's face los­ing the lit­tle col­or it had left; it whitened as his black eyes widened, as the snake's fangs pierced his neck, as he failed to push the en­chant­ed cage off him­self, as his knees gave way and he fell to the floor. ”I re­gret it," said Volde­mort cold­ly.

He turned away; there was no sad­ness in him, no re­morse. It was time to leave this shack and take charge, with a wand that would now do his full bid­ding. He point­ed it at the star­ry cage hold­ing the snake, which drift­ed up­ward, off snape, who fell side­ways on­to the floor, blood gush­ing from the wounds in his neck. Volde­mort swept from the room with­out a back­ward glance, and the great ser­pent float­ed af­ter him in its huge pro­tec­tive sphere. Back in the tun­nel and his own mind, Har­ry opened his eyes; He had drawn blood bit­ing down on his knuck­les in an ef­fort not to shout out. Now he was look­ing through the tiny crack be­tween crate and wall, watch­ing a foot in a black boot trem­bling on the floor. “Har­ry!” breathed Hermione be­hind him, but he had al­ready point­ed his wand at the crate block­ing his view. It lift­ed an inch in­to the air and drift­ed side­ways silent­ly. As qui­et­ly as he could, he pulled him­self up in­to the room. He did not know why he was do­ing it, why he was ap­proach­ing the dy­ing man: he did not know what he felt as he saw Snape's white face, adn the fin­gers try­ing to staunch the bloody wound at his neck.

Har­ry took off the in­vis­ibil­ity cloak and looked down up­on the man he hat­ed, whose widen­ing black eyes found Har­ry as he cried to speak. Har­ry bent over him, and Snape seized the front of his robes and pulled him close. A ter­ri­ble rasp­ing, gur­gling noise is­sued from Snape's throat. “Take...it...Take...it...” Some­thing more than blood was leak­ing from Snape. Sil­very blue, nei­ther gas nor liq­uid, it gushed form his mouth and his ears and his eyes, and Har­ry knew what it was, but did not know what to do-- A flask, con­jured from thin air, was thrust in­to his shak­ing hand by Hermione. Har­ry lfit­ed the sil­very sub­stance in­to it with his wand. When the fal­sk was full to the brim, and Snape looked as though there was no blood left in him, his grip on Har­ry's robes slack­ened. “Look...at....me...” he whis­pered. The green eyes found the black, but af­ter a sec­ond, some­thing in the depths of the dark pari seemed to van­ish, leav­ing them fixed, blank, and emp­ty. The hand hold­ing Har­ry thud­ded to the floor, and Snape moved no more.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE


THE PRINCE’S TALE



Har­ry re­mained kneel­ing at Snape’s side, sim­ply star­ing down at him, un­til quite sud­den­ly a high, cold voice spoke so close to them that Har­ry jumped on his feet, the flask gripped tight­ly in his hands, think­ing that Volde­mort had reen­tered the room.

Volde­mort’s voice re­ver­ber­at­ed from the walls and floor, and Har­ry re­al­ized that he was talk­ing to Hog­warts and to all the sur­round­ing area, that the res­idents of Hogsmeade and all those still fight­ing in the cas­tle would hear him as clear­ly as if he stood be­side them, his breath on the back of their necks, a death­blow away.

“You have fought,” said the high, cold voice, “valiant­ly. Lord Volde­mort knows how to val­ue brav­ery.

“Yet you have sus­tained heavy loss­es. If you con­tin­ue to re­sist me, you will all die, one by one. I do not wish this to hap­pen. Ev­ery drop of mag­ical blood spilled is a loss and a waste.

“Lord Volde­mort is mer­ci­ful. I com­mand my forces to re­treat im­me­di­ate­ly.

“You have one hour. Dis­pose of your dead with dig­ni­ty. Treat your in­jured.

“I speak now, Har­ry Pot­ter, di­rect­ly to you. You have per­mit­ted your friends to die for you rather than face me your­self. I shall wait for one hour in the For­bid­den For­est. If, at the end of that hour, you have not come to me, have not giv­en your­self up, then bat­tle recom­mences. This time, I shall en­ter the fray my­self, Har­ry Pot­ter, and I shall find you, and I shall pun­ish ev­ery last man, wom­an, and child who has tried to con­ceal you from me. One hour.”

Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads fran­ti­cal­ly, look­ing at Har­ry.

“Don’t lis­ten to him,” said Ron.

“It’ll be all right,” said Hermione wild­ly. “Let’s – let’s get back to the cas­tle, if he’s gone to the for­est we’ll need to think of a new plan – ”

She glanced at Snape’s body, then hur­ried back to the tun­nel en­trance. Ron fol­lowed her. Har­ry gath­ered up the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, then looked down at Snape. He did not know what to feel, ex­cept shock at the way Snape had been killed, and the rea­son for which it had been done…

They crawled back through the tun­nel, none of them talk­ing, and Har­ry won­dered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Volde­mort ring­ing in their heads as he could.

You have per­mit­ted your friends to die for you rather than face me your­self. I shall wait for one hour in the For­bid­den For­est…One hour…

Small bun­dles seemed to lit­ter the lawn at the front of the cas­tle (?). It could on­ly be an hour or so from dawn, yet it was pitch-​black. The three of them hur­ried to­ward the stone steps. A lone dog, the size of a small boat, lay aban­doned in front of them. There was no oth­er sign of Grawp or of his at­tack­er.

The cas­tle was un­nat­ural­ly silent. There were no flash­es of light now, no bangs or screams or shouts. The flag­stones of the de­sert­ed en­trance hall were stained with blood. Emer­alds were still scat­tered all over the floor, along with pieces of mar­ble and splin­tered wood. Part of the ban­is­ters had been blown away.

“Where is ev­ery­one?” whis­pered Hermione.

Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Har­ry stopped in the door­way.

The House ta­bles were gone and the room was crowd­ed. The sur­vivors stood in groups, their arms around each oth­er’s necks. The in­jured were be­ing treat­ed up­on the raised plat­form by Madam Pom­frey and a group of helpers. Firen­ze was amongst the in­jured; his flank poured blood and he shook where he lay, un­able to stand.

The dead lay in a row in the mid­dle of the Hall. Har­ry could not see Fred’s body, be­cause his fam­ily sur­round­ed him. George was kneel­ing at his head; Mrs. Weasley was ly­ing across Fred’s chest, her body shak­ing. Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears cas­cad­ed down his cheeks.

With­out a word to Har­ry, Ron and Hermione walked away. Har­ry saw Hermione ap­proach Gin­ny, whose face was swollen and blotchy, and hug her. Ron joined Bill, Fleur, and Per­cy, who flung an arm around Ron’s shoul­ders. As Gin­ny and Hermione moved clos­er to the rest of the fam­ily, Har­ry had a clear view of the bod­ies ly­ing next to Fred. Re­mus and Tonks, pale and still and peace­ful-​look­ing, ap­par­ent­ly asleep be­neath the dark, en­chant­ed ceil­ing.

The Great Hall seemed to fly away, be­come small­er, shrink, as Har­ry reeled back­ward from the door­way. He could not draw breath. He could not bear to look at any of the oth­er bod­ies, to see who else had died for him. He could not bear to join the Weasleys, could not look in­to their eyes, when if he had giv­en him­self up in the first place, Fred might nev­er have died…

He turned away and ran up the mar­ble stair­case. Lupin, Tonks… He yearned not to feel… He wished he could rip out his heart, his in­nards, ev­ery­thing that was scream­ing in­side him…

The cas­tle was com­plete­ly emp­ty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined the mass mourn­ing in the Great Hall. Har­ry ran with­out stop­ping, clutch­ing the crys­tal flask of Snape’s last thoughts, and he did not slow down un­til he reached the stone gar­goyle guard­ing the head­mas­ter’s of­fice.

“Pass­word?”

“Dum­ble­dore!” said Har­ry with­out think­ing, be­cause it was he whom he yearned to see, and to his sur­prise the gar­goyle slid aside re­veal­ing the spi­ral stair­case be­hind.

But when Har­ry burst in­to the cir­cu­lar of­fice he found a change. The por­traits that hung all around the walls were emp­ty. Not a sin­gle head­mas­ter or head­mistress re­mained to see him; all, it seemed, had flit­ted away, charg­ing through the paint­ings that lined the cas­tle so that they could have a clear view of what was go­ing on.

Har­ry glanced hope­less­ly at Dum­ble­dore’s de­sert­ed frame, which hung di­rect­ly be­hind the head­mas­ter’s chair, then turned his back on it. The stone Pen­sieve lay in the cab­inet where it had al­ways been. Har­ry heaved it on­to the desk and poured Snape’s mem­ories in­to the wide basin with its runic mark­ings around the edge. To es­cape in­to some­one else’s head would be a blessed re­lief… Noth­ing that even Snape had left him could be worse than his own thoughts. The mem­ories swirled, sil­ver white and strange, and with­out hes­itat­ing, with a feel­ing of reck­less aban­don­ment, as though this would as­suage his tor­tur­ing grief, Har­ry dived.

He fell head­long in­to sun­light, and his feet found warm ground. When he straight­ened up, he saw that he was in a near­ly de­sert­ed play­ground. A sin­gle huge chim­ney dom­inat­ed the dis­tant sky­line. Two girls were swing­ing back­ward and for­ward, and a skin­ny boy was watch­ing them from be­hind a clump of bush­es. His black hair was over­long and his clothes were so mis­matched that it looked de­lib­er­ate: too short jeans, a shab­by, over­large coat that might have be­longed to a grown man, an odd smock­like shirt.

Har­ry moved clos­er to the boy. Snape looked no more than nine or ten years old, sal­low, small, stringy. There was undis­guised greed in his thin face as he watched the younger of the two girls swing­ing high­er and high­er than her sis­ter.

“Lily, don’t do it!” shrieked the el­der of the two.

But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown in­to the air, quite lit­er­al­ly flown, launched her­self sky­ward with a great shout of laugh­ter, and in­stead of crum­pling on the play­ground as­phalt, she soared like a trapeze artist through the air, stay­ing up far too long, land­ing far too light­ly.

“Mum­my told you not to!”

Petu­nia stopped her swing by drag­ging the heels of her san­dals on the ground, mak­ing a crunch­ing, grind­ing sound, then leapt up, hands on hips.

“Mum­my said you weren’t al­lowed, Lily!”

“But I’m fine,” said Lily, still gig­gling. “Tuney, look at this. Watch what I can do.”

Petu­nia glanced around. The play­ground was de­sert­ed apart from them­selves and, though the girls did not know it, Snape. Lily had picked up a fall­en flow­er from the bush be­hind which Snape lurked. Petu­nia ad­vanced, ev­ident­ly torn be­tween cu­rios­ity and dis­ap­proval. Lily wait­ed un­til Petu­nia was near enough to have a clear view, then held out her palm. The flow­er sat there, open­ing and clos­ing its petals, like some bizarre, many-​lipped oys­ter.

“Stop it!” shrieked Petu­nia.

“It’s not hurt­ing you,” said Lily, but she closed her hand on the blos­som and threw it back to the ground.

“It’s not right,” said Petu­nia, but her eyes had fol­lowed the flow­er’s flight to the ground and lin­gered up­on it. “How do you do it?” she added, and there was def­inite long­ing in her voice.

“It’s ob­vi­ous, isn’t it?” Snape could no longer con­tain him­self, but had jumped out from be­hind the bush­es. Petu­nia shrieked and ran back­ward to­ward the swings, but Lily, though clear­ly star­tled, re­mained where she was. Snape seemed to re­gret his ap­pear­ance. A dull flush of col­or mount­ed the sal­low cheeks as he looked at Lily.

“What’s ob­vi­ous?” asked Lily.

Snape had an air of ner­vous ex­cite­ment. With a glance at the dis­tant Petu­nia, now hov­er­ing be­side the swings, he low­ered his voice and said, “I know what you are.”

“What do you mean?”

“You’re…you’re a witch,” whis­pered Snape.

She looked af­front­ed.

“That’s not a very nice thing to say to some­body!”

She turned, nose in the air, and marched off to­ward her sis­ter.

“No!” said Snape. He was high­ly col­ored now, and Har­ry won­dered why he did not take off the ridicu­lous­ly large coat, un­less it was be­cause he did not want to re­veal the smock be­neath it. He flapped af­ter the girls, look­ing lu­di­crous­ly bat­like, like his old­er self.

The sis­ters con­sid­ered him, unit­ed in dis­ap­proval, both hold­ing on to one of the swing poles, as though it was the safe place in tag.

“You are,” said Snape to Lily. “You are a witch. I’ve been watch­ing you for a while. But there’s noth­ing wrong with that. My mum’s one, and I’m a wiz­ard.”

Petu­nia’s laugh was like cold wa­ter.

“Wiz­ard!” she shrieked, her courage re­turned now that she had re­cov­ered from the shock of his un­ex­pect­ed ap­pear­ance. “I know who you are. You’re that Snape boy! They live down Spin­ner’s End by the riv­er,” she told Lily, and it was ev­ident from her tone that she con­sid­ered the ad­dress a poor rec­om­men­da­tion. “Why have you been spy­ing on us?”

“Haven’t been spy­ing,” said Snape, hot and un­com­fort­able and dirty-​haired in the bright sun­light. “Wouldn’t spy on you, any­way,” he added spite­ful­ly, “you’re a Mug­gle.”

Though Petu­nia ev­ident­ly did not un­der­stand the word, she could hard­ly mis­take the tone.

“Lily, come on, we’re leav­ing!” she said shril­ly. Lily obeyed her sis­ter at once, glar­ing at Snape as she left. He stood watch­ing them as they marched through the play­ground gate, and Har­ry, the on­ly one left to ob­serve him, rec­og­nized Snape’s bit­ter dis­ap­point­ment, and un­der­stood that Snape had been plan­ning this mo­ment for a while, and that it had all gone wrong…

The scene dis­solved, and be­fore Har­ry knew it, re-​formed around him. He was now in a small thick­et of trees. He could see a sun­lit riv­er glit­ter­ing through their trunks. The shad­ows cast by the trees made a basin of cool green shade. Two chil­dren sat fac­ing each oth­er, cross-​legged on the ground. Snape had re­moved his coat now; his odd smock looked less pec­ular in the half light.

“…and the Min­istry can pun­ish you if you do mag­ic out­side school, you get let­ters.”

“But I have done mag­ic out­side school!”

“We’re all right. We haven’t got wands yet. They let you off when you’re a kid and you can’t help it. But once you’re eleven,” he nod­ded im­por­tant­ly, “and they start train­ing you, then you’ve got to go care­ful.”

There was a lit­tle si­lence. Lily had picked up a fall­en twig and twirled it in the air, and Har­ry knew that she was imag­in­ing sparks trail­ing from it. Then she dropped the twig, leaned in to­ward the boy, and said, “It is re­al, isn’t it? It’s not a joke? Petu­nia says you’re ly­ing to me. Petu­nia says there isn’t a Hog­warts. It is re­al, isn’t it?”

“It’s re­al for us,” said Snape. “Not for her. But we’ll get the let­ter, you and me.”

“Re­al­ly?” whis­pered Lily.

“Def­inite­ly,” said Snape, and even with his poor­ly cut hair and his odd clothes, he struck an odd­ly im­pres­sive fig­ure sprawled in front of her, brim­ful of con­fi­dence in his des­tiny.

“And will it re­al­ly come by owl?” Lily whis­pered.

“Nor­mal­ly,” said Snape. “But you’re Mug­gle-​born, so some­one from the school will have to come and ex­plain to your par­ents.”

“Does it make a dif­fer­ence, be­ing Mug­gle-​born?”

Snape hes­itat­ed. His black eyes, ea­ger in the green­ish gloom, moved over the pale face, the dark red hair.

“No,” he said. “It doesn’t make any dif­fer­ence.”

“Good,” said Lily, re­lax­ing. It was clear that she had been wor­ry­ing.

“You’ve got loads of mag­ic,” said Snape. “I saw that. All the time I was watch­ing you…”

His voice trailed away; she was not lis­ten­ing, but had stretched out on the leafy ground and was look­ing up at the canopy of leaves over­head. He watched her as greed­ily as he had watched her in the play­ground.

“How are things at your house?” Lily asked.

A lit­tle crease ap­peared be­tween his eyes.

“Fine,” he said.

“They’re not ar­gu­ing any­more?”

“Oh yes, they’re ar­gu­ing,” said Snape. He picked up a fist­ful of leaves and be­gan tear­ing them apart, ap­par­ent­ly un­aware of what he was do­ing. “But it won’t be that long and I’ll be gone.”

“Doesn’t your dad like mag­ic?”

“He doesn’t like any­thing, much,” said Snape.

“Severus?”

A lit­tle smile twist­ed Snape’s mouth when she said his name.

“Yeah?”

“Tell me about the de­men­tors again.”

“What d’you want to know about them for?”

“If I use mag­ic out­side school – ”

“They wouldn’t give you to the de­men­tors for that! De­men­tors are for peo­ple who do re­al­ly bad stuff. They guard the wiz­ard prison, Azk­aban. You’re not go­ing to end up in Azk­aban, you’re too – ”

He turned red again and shred­ded more leaves. Then a small rustling noise be­hind Har­ry made him turn: Petu­nia, hid­ing be­hind a tree, had lost her foot­ing.

“Tuney!” said Lily, sur­prise and wel­come in her voice, but Snape had jumped to his feet.

“Who’s spy­ing now?” he shout­ed. “What d’you want?”

Petu­nia was breath­less, alarmed at be­ing caught. Har­ry could see her strug­gling for some­thing hurt­ful to say.

“What is that you’re wear­ing, any­way?” she said, point­ing at Snape’s chest. “Your mum’s blouse?”

There was a crack. A branch over Petu­nia’s head had fall­en. Lily screamed. The branch caught Petu­nia on the shoul­der, and she stag­gered back­ward and burst in­to tears.

“Tuney!”

But Petu­nia was run­ning away. Lily round­ed on Snape.

“Did you make that hap­pen?”

“No.” He looked both de­fi­ant and scared.

“You did!” She was back­ing away from him. “You did! You hurt her!”

“No – no, I didn’t!”

But the lie did not con­vince Lily. Af­ter one last burn­ing look, she ran from the lit­tle thick­et, off af­ter her sis­ter, and Snape looked mis­er­able and con­fused…

And the scene re-​formed. Har­ry looked around. He was on plat­form nine and three quar­ters, and Snape stood be­side him, slight­ly hunched, next to a thin, sal­low-​faced, sour-​look­ing wom­an who great­ly re­sem­bled him. Snape was star­ing at a fam­ily of four a short dis­tance away. The two girls stood a lit­tle apart from their par­ents. Lily seemed to be plead­ing with her sis­ter. Har­ry moved clos­er to lis­ten.

“…I’m sor­ry, Tuney, I’m sor­ry! Lis­ten – ” She caught her sis­ter’s hand and held tight to it, even though Petu­nia tried to pull it away. “Maybe once I’m there – no, lis­ten, Tuney! Maybe once I’m there, I’ll be able to go to Pro­fes­sor Dum­ble­dore and per­suade him to change his mind!”

“I don’t – want – to – go!” said Petu­nia, and she dragged her hand back out of her sis­ter’s grasp. “You think I want to go to some stupid cas­tle and learn to be a – a…”

Her pale eyes roved over the plat­form, over the cats mewl­ing in their own­ers’ arms, over the owls, flut­ter­ing and hoot­ing at each oth­er in cages, over the stu­dents, some al­ready in their long black robes, load­ing trunks on­to the scar­let steam en­gine or else greet­ing one an­oth­er with glad cries af­ter a sum­mer apart.

“ – you think I want to be a – a freak?”

Lily’s eyes filled with tears as Petu­nia suc­ceed­ed in tug­ging her hand away.

“I’m not a freak,” said Lily. “That’s a hor­ri­ble thing to say.”

“That’s where you’re go­ing,” said Petu­nia with rel­ish. “A spe­cial school for freaks. You and that Snape boy…weirdos, that’s what you two are. It’s good you’re be­ing sep­arat­ed from nor­mal peo­ple. It’s for our safe­ty.”

Lily glanced to­ward her par­ents, who were look­ing around the plat­form with an air of whole­heart­ed en­joy­ment, drink­ing in the scene. Then she looked back at her sis­ter, and her voice was low and fierce.

“You didn’t think it was such a freak’s school when you wrote to the head­mas­ter and begged him to take you.”

Petu­nia turned scar­let.

“Beg? I didn’t beg!”

“I saw his re­ply. It was very kind.”

“You shouldn’t have read – ” whis­pered Petu­nia, “that was my pri­vate – how could you – ?”

Lily gave her­self away by half-​glanc­ing to­ward where Snape stood near­by. Petu­nia gasped.

“That boy found it! You and that boy have been sneak­ing in my room!”

“No – not sneak­ing – ” Now Lily was on the de­fen­sive. “Severus saw the en­ve­lope, and he couldn’t be­lieve a Mug­gle could have con­tact­ed Hog­warts, that’s all! He says there must be wiz­ards work­ing un­der­cov­er in the postal ser­vice who take care of – ”

“Ap­par­ent­ly wiz­ards poke their noses in ev­ery­where!” said Petu­nia, now as pale as she had been flushed. “Freak!” she spat at her sis­ter, and she flounced off to where her par­ents stood…

The scene dis­solved again. Snape was hur­ry­ing along the cor­ri­dor of the Hog­warts Ex­press as it clat­tered through the coun­try­side. He had al­ready changed in­to his school robes, had per­haps tak­en the first op­por­tu­ni­ty to take off his dread­ful Mug­gle clothes. At last he stopped, out­side a com­part­ment in which a group of row­dy boys were talk­ing. Hunched in a cor­ner seat be­side the win­dow was Lily, her face pressed against the win­dow­pane.

Snape slid open the com­part­ment door and sat down op­po­site Lily. She glanced at him and then looked back out of the win­dow. She had been cry­ing.

“I don’t want to talk to you,” she said in a con­strict­ed voice.

“Why not?”

“Tuney h-​hates me. Be­cause we saw that let­ter from Dum­ble­dore.”

“So what?”

She threw him a look of deep dis­like.

“So she’s my sis­ter!”

“She’s on­ly a – ” He caught him­self quick­ly; Lily, too busy try­ing to wipe her eyes with­out be­ing no­ticed, did not hear him.

“But we’re go­ing!” he said, un­able to sup­press the ex­hil­ara­tion in his voice. “This is it! We’re off to Hog­warts!”

She nod­ded, mop­ping her eyes, but in spite of her­self, she half smiled.

“You’d bet­ter be in Slytherin,” said Snape, en­cour­aged that she had bright­ened a lit­tle.

“Slytherin?”

One of the boys shar­ing the com­part­ment, who had shown no in­ter­est at all in Lily or Snape un­til that point, looked around at the word, and Har­ry, whose at­ten­tion had been fo­cused en­tire­ly on the two be­side the win­dow, saw his fa­ther: slight, black-​haired like Snape, but with that in­de­fin­able air of hav­ing been well-​cared-​for, even adored, that Snape so con­spic­uous­ly lacked.

“Who wants to be in Slytherin? I think I’d leave, wouldn’t you?” James asked the boy loung­ing on the seats op­po­site him, and with a jolt, Har­ry re­al­ized that it was Sir­ius. Sir­ius did not smile.

“My whole fam­ily have been in Slytherin,” he said.

“Blimey,” said James, “and I thought you seemed all right!”

Sir­ius grinned.

“Maybe I’ll break the tra­di­tion. Where are you head­ing, if you’ve got the choice?”

James lift­ed an in­vis­ible sword.

“‘Gryffind­or, where dwell the brave at heart!’ Like my dad.”

Snape made a small, dis­parag­ing noise. James turned on him.

“Got a prob­lem with that?”

“No,” said Snape, though his slight sneer said oth­er­wise. “If you’d rather be brawny than brainy – ”

“Where’re you hop­ing to go, see­ing as you’re nei­ther?” in­ter­ject­ed Sir­ius.

James roared with laugh­ter. Lily sat up, rather flushed, and looked from James to Sir­ius in dis­like.

“Come on, Severus, let’s find an­oth­er com­part­ment.”

“Oooooo…”

James and Sir­ius im­itat­ed her lofty voice; James tried to trip Snape as he passed.

“See ya, Sniv­el­lus!” a voice called, as the com­part­ment door slammed…

And the scene dis­solved once more…

Har­ry was stand­ing right be­hind Snape as they faced the can­dlelit House ta­bles, lined with rapt faces. Then Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall said, “Evans, Lily!”

He watched his moth­er walk for­ward on trem­bling legs and sit down up­on the rick­ety stool. Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall dropped the Sort­ing Hat on­to her head, and bare­ly a sec­ond af­ter it had touched the dark red hair, the hat cried, “Gryffind­or!”

Har­ry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off the hat, hand­ed it back to Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall, then hur­ried to­ward the cheer­ing Gryffind­ors, but as she went she glanced back at Snape, and there was a sad lit­tle smile on her face. Har­ry saw Sir­ius move up the bench to make room for her. She took one look at him, seemed to rec­og­nize him from the train, fold­ed her arms, and firm­ly turned her back on him.

The roll call con­tin­ued. Har­ry watched Lupin, Pet­ti­grew, and his fa­ther join Lily and Sir­ius at the Gryffind­or ta­ble. At last, when on­ly a dozen stu­dents re­mained to be sort­ed, Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall called Snape.

Har­ry walked with him to the stool, watched him place the hat up­on his head. “Slytherin!” cried the Sort­ing Hat.

And Severus Snape moved off to the oth­er side of the Hall, away from Lily, to where the Slytherins were cheer­ing him, to where Lu­cius Mal­foy, a pre­fect badge gleam­ing up­on his chest, pat­ted Snape on the back as he sat down be­side him…

And the scene changed…

Lily and Snape were walk­ing across the cas­tle court­yard, ev­ident­ly ar­gu­ing. Har­ry hur­ried to catch up with them, to lis­ten in. As he reached them, he re­al­ized how much taller they both were. A few years seemed to have passed since their Sort­ing.

“…thought we were sup­posed to be friends?” Snape was say­ing, “Best friends?”

“We are, Sev, but I don’t like some of the peo­ple you’re hang­ing round with! I’m sor­ry, but I de­test Av­ery and Mul­ciber! Mul­ciber! What do you see in him, Sev, he’s creepy! D’you know what he tried to do to Mary Mac­don­ald the oth­er day?”

Lily had reached a pil­lar and leaned against it, look­ing up in­to the thin, sal­low face.

“That was noth­ing,” said Snape. “It was a laugh, that’s all – ”

“It was Dark Mag­ic, and if you think that’s fun­ny – ”

“What about the stuff Pot­ter and his mates get up to?” de­mand­ed Snape. His col­or rose again as he said it, un­able, it seemed, to hold in his re­sent­ment.

“What’s Pot­ter got to do with any­thing?” said Lily.

“They sneak out at night. There’s some­thing weird about that Lupin. Where does he keep go­ing?”

“He’s ill,” said Lily. “They say he’s ill – ”

“Ev­ery month at the full moon?” said Snape.

“I know your the­ory,” said Lily, and she sound­ed cold. “Why are you so ob­sessed with them any­way? Why do you care what they’re do­ing at night?”

“I’m just try­ing to show you they’re not as won­der­ful as ev­ery­one seems to think they are.”

The in­ten­si­ty of his gaze made her blush.

“They don’t use Dark Mag­ic, though.” She dropped her voice. “And you’re be­ing re­al­ly un­grate­ful. I heard what hap­pened the oth­er night. You went sneak­ing down that tun­nel by the Whomp­ing Wil­low, and James Pot­ter saved you from what­ev­er’s down there – ”

Snape’s whole face con­tort­ed and he splut­tered, “Saved? Saved? You think he was play­ing the hero? He was sav­ing his neck and his friends’ too! You’re not go­ing to – I won’t let you – ”

“Let me? Let me?”

Lily’s bright green eyes were slits. Snape back­tracked at once.

“I didn’t m ean – I just don’t want to see you made a fool of – He fan­cies you, James Pot­ter fan­cies you!” The words seemed wrenched from him against his will. “And he’s not…ev­ery­one thinks…big Quid­ditch hero – ” Snape’s bit­ter­ness and dis­like were ren­der­ing him in­co­her­ent, and Lily’s eye­brows were trav­el­ing far­ther and far­ther up her fore­head.

“I know James Pot­ter’s an ar­ro­gant to­er­ag,” she said, cut­ting across Snape. “I don’t need you to tell me that. But Mul­ciber’s and Av­ery’s idea of hu­mor is just evil. Evil, Sev. I don’t un­der­stand how you can be friends with them.”

Har­ry doubt­ed that Snape had even heard her stric­tures on Mul­ciber and Av­ery. The mo­ment she had in­sult­ed James Pot­ter, his whole body had re­laxed, and as they walked away there was a new spring in Snape’s step…

And the scene dis­solved…

Har­ry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall af­ter sit­ting his O.W.L. in De­fense Against the Dark Arts, watched as he wan­dered away from the cas­tle and strayed in­ad­ver­tent­ly close to the place be­neath the beech tree where James, Sir­ius, Lupin, and Pet­ti­grew sat to­geth­er. But Har­ry kept his dis­tance this time, be­cause he knew what hap­pened af­ter James had hoist­ed Severus in­to the air and taunt­ed him; he knew what had been done and said, and it gave him no plea­sure to hear it again… He watched as Lily joined the group and went to Snape’s de­fense. Dis­tant­ly he heard Snape shout at her in his hu­mil­ia­tion and his fury, the un­for­giv­able word: “Mud­blood.”

The scene changed…

“I’m sor­ry.”

“I’m not in­ter­est­ed.”

“I’m sor­ry!”

“Save your breath”

It was night­time. Lily, who was wear­ing a dress­ing gown, stood with her arms fold­ed in front of the por­trait of the Fat La­dy, at the en­trance to Gryffind­or Tow­er.

“I on­ly came out be­cause Mary told me you were threat­en­ing to sleep here.”

“I was. I would have done. I nev­er meant to call you Mud­blood, it just – ”

“Slipped out?” There was no pity in Lily’s voice. “It’s too late. I’ve made ex­cus­es for you for years. None of my friends can un­der­stand why I even talk to you. You and your pre­cious lit­tle Death Eater friends – you see, you don’t even de­ny it! You don’t even de­ny that’s what you’re all aim­ing to be! You can’t wait to join You-​Know-​Who, can you?”

He opened his mouth, but closed it with­out speak­ing.

“I can’t pre­tend any­more. You’ve cho­sen your way, I’ve cho­sen mine.”

“No – lis­ten, I didn’t mean – ”

“ – to call me Mud­blood? But you call ev­ery­one of my birth Mud­blood, Severus. Why should I be any dif­fer­ent?”

He strug­gled on the verge of speech, but with a con­temp­tu­ous look she turned and climbed back through the por­trait hole…

The cor­ri­dor dis­solved, and the scene took a lit­tle longer to re­form: Har­ry seemed to fly through shift­ing shapes and col­ors un­til his sur­round­ings so­lid­ified again and he stood on a hill­top, for­lorn and cold in the dark­ness, the wind whistling through the branch­es of a few leaf­less trees. The adult Snape was pant­ing, turn­ing on the spot, his wand gripped tight­ly in his hand, wait­ing for some­thing or for some­one… His fear in­fect­ed Har­ry too, even though he knew that he could not be harmed, and he looked over his shoul­der, won­der­ing what it was that Snape was wait­ing for –

Then a blind­ing, jagged jet of white light flew through the air. Har­ry thought of light­ning, but Snape had dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of his hand.

“Don’t kill me!”

“That was not my in­ten­tion.”

Any sound of Dum­ble­dore Ap­pa­rat­ing had been drowned by the sound of the wind in the branch­es. He stood be­fore Snape with his robes whip­ping around him, and his face was il­lu­mi­nat­ed from be­low in the light cast by his wand.

“Well, Severus? What mes­sage does Lord Volde­mort have for me?”

“No – no mes­sage – I’m here on my own ac­count!”

Snape was wring­ing his hands. He looked a lit­tle mad, with his strag­gling black hair fly­ing around him.

“I – I come with a warn­ing – no, a re­quest – please – ”

Dum­ble­dore flicked his wand. Though leaves and branch­es still flew through the night air around them, si­lence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced each oth­er.

“What re­quest could a Death Eater make of me?”

“The – the prophe­cy…the pre­dic­tion…Trelawney…”

“Ah, yes,” said Dum­ble­dore. “How much did you re­lay to Lord Volde­mort?”

“Ev­ery­thing – ev­ery­thing I heard!” said Snape. “That is why – it is for that rea­son – he thinks it means Lily Evans!”

“The prophe­cy did not re­fer to a wom­an,” said Dum­ble­dore. “It spoke of a boy born at the end of Ju­ly – ”

“You know what I mean! He thinks it means her son, he is go­ing to hunt her down – kill them all – ”

“If she means so much to you,” said Dum­ble­dore, “sure­ly Lord Volde­mort will spare her? Could you not ask for mer­cy for the moth­er, in ex­change for the son?”

“I have – I have asked him – ”

“You dis­gust me,” said Dum­ble­dore, and Har­ry had nev­er heard so much con­tempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a lit­tle, “You do not care, then, about the deaths of her hus­band and child? They can die, as long as you have what you want?”

Snape said noth­ing, but mere­ly looked up at Dum­ble­dore.

“Hide them all, then,” he croaked. “Keep her – them – safe. Please.”

“And what will you give me in re­turn, Severus?”

“In – in re­turn?” Snape gaped at Dum­ble­dore, and Har­ry ex­pect­ed him to protest, but af­ter a long mo­ment he said, “Any­thing.”

The hill­top fad­ed, and Har­ry stood in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, and some­thing was mak­ing a ter­ri­ble sound, like a wound­ed an­imal. Snape was slumped for­ward in a chair and Dum­ble­dore was stand­ing over him, look­ing grim. Af­ter a mo­ment or two, Snape raised his face, and he looked like a man who had lived a hun­dred years of mis­ery since leav­ing the wild hill­top.

“I thought…you were go­ing…to keep her…safe…”

“She and James put their faith in the wrong per­son,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Rather like you, Severus. Weren’t you hop­ing that Lord Volde­mort would spare her?”

Snape’s breath­ing was shal­low.

“Her boy sur­vives,” said Dum­ble­dore.

With a tiny jerk of the head, Snape seemed to flick off an irk­some fly.

“Her son lives. He has her eyes, pre­cise­ly her eyes. You re­mem­ber the shape and col­or of Lily Evans’s eyes, I am sure?”

“DON’T!” bel­lowed Snape. “Gone…dead…”

“Is this re­morse, Severus?”

“I wish…I wish I were dead…”

“And what use would that be to any­one?” said Dum­ble­dore cold­ly. “If you loved Lily Evans, if you tru­ly loved her, then your way for­ward is clear.”

Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain, and Dum­ble­dore’s words ap­peared to take a long time to reach him.

“What – what do you mean?”

“You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me pro­tect Lily’s son.”

“He does not need pro­tec­tion. The Dark Lord has gone – ”

“The Dark Lord will re­turn, and Har­ry Pot­ter will be in ter­ri­ble dan­ger when he does.”

There was a long pause, and slow­ly Snape re­gained con­trol of him­self, mas­tered his own breath­ing. At last he said, “Very well. Very well. But nev­er – nev­er tell, Dum­ble­dore! This must be be­tween us! Swear it! I can­not bear…es­pe­cial­ly Pot­ter’s son…I want your word!”

“My word, Severus, that I shall nev­er re­veal the best of you?” Dum­ble­dore sighed, look­ing down in­to Snape’s fe­ro­cious, an­guished face. “If you in­sist…”

The of­fice dis­solved but re-​formed in­stant­ly. Snape was pac­ing up and down in front of Dum­ble­dore.

“ – mediocre, ar­ro­gant as his fa­ther, a de­ter­mined rule-​break­er, de­light­ed to find him­self fa­mous, at­ten­tion-​seek­ing and im­per­ti­nent – ”

“You see what you ex­pect to see, Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore, with­out rais­ing his eyes from a copy of Trans­fig­ura­tion To­day. “Oth­er teach­ers re­port that the boy is mod­est, lik­able, and rea­son­ably tal­ent­ed. Per­son­al­ly, I find him an en­gag­ing child.”

Dum­ble­dore turned a page, and said, with­out look­ing up, “Keep an eye on Quir­rell, won’t you?”

A whirl of col­or, and now ev­ery­thing dark­ened, and Snape and Dum­ble­dore stood a lit­tle apart in the en­trance hall, while the last strag­glers from the Yule Ball passed them on their way to bed.

“Well?” mur­mured Dum­ble­dore.

“Karkaroff’s Mark is be­com­ing dark­er too. He is pan­ick­ing, he fears ret­ri­bu­tion; you know how much help he gave the Min­istry af­ter the Dark Lord fell.” Snape looked side­ways at Dum­ble­dore’s crooked-​nosed pro­file. “Karkaroff in­tends to flee if the Mark burns.”

“Does he?” said Dum­ble­dore soft­ly, as Fleur Dela­cour and Roger Davies came gig­gling in from the grounds. “And are you tempt­ed to join him?”

“No,” said Snape, his black eyes on Fleur’s and Roger’s re­treat­ing fig­ures. “I am not such a cow­ard.”

“No,” agreed Dum­ble­dore. “You are a braver man by far than Ig­or Karkaroff. You know, I some­times think we Sort too soon…”

He walked away, leav­ing Snape look­ing strick­en…

And now Har­ry stood in the head­mas­ter’s of­fice yet again. It was night­time, and Dum­ble­dore sagged side­ways in the throne­like chair be­hind the desk, ap­par­ent­ly semi­con­scious. His right hand dan­gled over the side, black­ened and burned. Snape was mut­ter­ing in­can­ta­tions, point­ing his wand at the wrist of the hand, while with his left hand he tipped a gob­let full of thick gold­en po­tion down Dum­ble­dore’s throat. Af­ter a mo­ment or two, Dum­ble­dore’s eye­lids flut­tered and opened.

“Why,” said Snape, with­out pream­ble, “why did you put on that ring? It car­ries a curse, sure­ly you re­al­ized that. Why even touch it?”

Mar­vo­lo Gaunt’s ring lay on the desk be­fore Dum­ble­dore. It was cracked; the sword of Gryffind­or lay be­side it.

Dum­ble­dore gri­maced.

“I…was a fool. Sore­ly tempt­ed…”

“Tempt­ed by what?”

Dum­ble­dore did not an­swer.

“It is a mir­acle you man­aged to re­turn here!” Snape sound­ed fu­ri­ous. “That ring car­ried a curse of ex­traor­di­nary pow­er, to con­tain it is all we can hope for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time be­ing – ”

Dum­ble­dore raised his black­ened, use­less hand, and ex­am­ined it with the ex­pres­sion of one be­ing shown an in­ter­est­ing cu­rio.

“You have done very well, Severus. How long do you think I have?”

Dum­ble­dore’s tone was con­ver­sa­tion­al; he might have been ask­ing for a weath­er fore­cast. Snape hes­itat­ed, and then said, “I can­not tell. Maybe a year. There is no halt­ing such a spell for­ev­er. It will spread even­tu­al­ly, it is the sort of curse that strength­ens over time.”

Dum­ble­dore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live seemed a mat­ter of lit­tle or no con­cern to him.

“I am for­tu­nate, ex­treme­ly for­tu­nate, that I have you, Severus.”

“If you had on­ly sum­moned me a lit­tle ear­li­er, I might have been able to do more, buy you more time!” said Snape fu­ri­ous­ly. He looked down at the bro­ken ring and the sword. “Did you think that break­ing the ring would break the curse?”

“Some­thing like that…I was deliri­ous, no doubt…” said Dum­ble­dore. With an ef­fort he straight­ened him­self in his chair. “Well, re­al­ly, this makes mat­ters much more straight­for­ward.”

Snape looked ut­ter­ly per­plexed. Dum­ble­dore smiled.

“I re­fer to the plan Lord Volde­mort is re­volv­ing around me. His plan to have the poor Mal­foy boy mur­der me.”

Snape sat down in the chair Har­ry had so of­ten oc­cu­pied, across the desk from Dum­ble­dore. Har­ry could tell that he want­ed to say more on the sub­ject of Dum­ble­dore’s cursed hand, but the oth­er held it up in po­lite re­fusal to dis­cuss the mat­ter fur­ther. Scowl­ing, Snape said, “The Dark Lord does not ex­pect Dra­co to suc­ceed. This is mere­ly pun­ish­ment for Lu­cius’s re­cent fail­ures. Slow tor­ture for Dra­co’s par­ents, while they watch him fail and pay the price.”

“In short, the boy has had a death sen­tence pro­nounced up­on him as sure­ly as I have,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Now, I should have thought the nat­ural suc­ces­sor to the job, once Dra­co fails, is your­self?”

There was a short pause.

“That, I think, is the Dark Lord’s plan.”

“Lord Volde­mort fore­sees a mo­ment in the near fu­ture when he will not need a spy at Hog­warts?”

“He be­lieves the school will soon be in his grasp, yes.”

“And if it does fall in­to his grasp,” said Dum­ble­dore, al­most, it seemed, as an aside, “I have your word that you will do all in your pow­er to pro­tect the stu­dents at Hog­warts?”

Snape gave a stiff nod.

“Good. Now then. Your first pri­or­ity will be to dis­cov­er what Dra­co is up to. A fright­ened teenage boy is a dan­ger to oth­ers as well as to him­self. Of­fer him help and guid­ance, he ought to ac­cept, he likes you – ”

“ – much less since his fa­ther has lost fa­vor. Dra­co blames me, he thinks I have usurped Lu­cius’s po­si­tion.”

“All the same, try. I am con­cerned less for my­self than for ac­ci­den­tal vic­tims of what­ev­er schemes might oc­cur to the boy. Ul­ti­mate­ly, of course, there is on­ly one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord Volde­mort’s wrath.”

Snape raised his eye­brows and his tone was sar­don­ic as he asked, “Are you in­tend­ing to let him kill you?”

“Cer­tain­ly not. You must kill me.”

There was a long si­lence, bro­ken on­ly by an odd click­ing noise. Fawkes the phoenix was gnaw­ing a bit of cut­tle­bone.

“Would you like me to do it now?” asked Snape, his voice heavy with irony. “Or would you like a few mo­ments to com­pose an epi­taph?”

“Oh, not quite yet,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing. “I dare­say the mo­ment will present it­self in due course. Giv­en what has hap­pened tonight,” he in­di­cat­ed his with­ered hand, “we can be sure that it will hap­pen with­in a year.”

“If you don’t mind dy­ing,” said Snape rough­ly, “why not let Dra­co do it?”

“That boy’s soul is not yet so dam­aged,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I would not have it ripped apart on my ac­count.”

“And my soul, Dum­ble­dore? Mine?”

“You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid pain and hu­mil­ia­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore. “I ask this one great fa­vor of you, Severus, be­cause death is com­ing for me as sure­ly as the Chud­ley Can­nons will fin­ish bot­tom of this year’s league. I con­fess I should pre­fer a quick, pain­less ex­it to the pro­tract­ed and messy af­fair it will be if, for in­stance, Grey­back is in­volved – I hear Volde­mort has re­cruit­ed him? Or dear Bel­la­trix, who likes to play with her food be­fore she eats it.”

His tone was light, but his blue eyes pierced Snape as they had fre­quent­ly pierced Har­ry, as though the soul they dis­cussed was vis­ible to him. At last Snape gave an­oth­er curt nod.

Dum­ble­dore seemed sat­is­fied.

“Thank you, Severus…”

The of­fice dis­ap­peared, and now Snape and Dum­ble­dore were strolling to­geth­er in the de­sert­ed cas­tle grounds by twi­light.

“What are you do­ing with Pot­ter, all these evenings you are clos­et­ed to­geth­er?” Snape asked abrupt­ly.

Dum­ble­dore looked weary.

“Why? You aren’t try­ing to give him more de­ten­tions, Severus? The boy will soon have spent more time in de­ten­tion than out.”

“He is his fa­ther over again – ”

“In looks, per­haps, but his deep­est na­ture is much more like his moth­er’s. I spend time with Har­ry be­cause I have things to dis­cuss with him, in­for­ma­tion I must give him be­fore it is too late.”

“In­for­ma­tion,” re­peat­ed Snape. “You trust him…you do not trust me.”

“It is not a ques­tion of trust. I have, as we both know, lim­it­ed time. It is es­sen­tial that I give the boy enough in­for­ma­tion for him to do what he needs to do.”

“And why may I not have the same in­for­ma­tion?”

“I pre­fer not to put all of my se­crets in one bas­ket, par­tic­ular­ly not a bas­ket that spends so much time dan­gling on the arm of Lord Volde­mort.”

“Which I do on your or­ders!”

“And you do it ex­treme­ly well. Do not think that I un­der­es­ti­mate the con­stant dan­ger in which you place your­self, Severus. To give Volde­mort what ap­pears to be valu­able in­for­ma­tion while with­hold­ing the es­sen­tials is a job I would en­trust to no­body but you.”

“Yet you con­fide much more in a boy who is in­ca­pable of Oc­clu­men­cy, whose mag­ic is mediocre, and who has a di­rect con­nec­tion in­to the Dark Lord’s mind!”

“Volde­mort fears that con­nec­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Not so long ago he had one small taste of what tru­ly shar­ing Har­ry’s mind means to him. It was pain such as he has nev­er ex­pe­ri­enced. He will not try to pos­sess Har­ry again, I am sure of it. Not in that way.”

“I don’t un­der­stand.”

“Lord Volde­mort’s soul, maimed as it is, can­not bear close con­tact with a soul like Har­ry’s. Like a tongue on frozen steel, like flesh in flame – ”

“Souls? We were talk­ing of minds!”

“In the case of Har­ry and Lord Volde­mort, to speak of one is to speak of the oth­er.”

Dum­ble­dore glanced around to make sure that they were alone. They were close by the For­bid­den For­est now, but there was no sign of any­one near them.

“Af­ter you have killed me, Severus – ”

“You refuse to tell me ev­ery­thing, yet you ex­pect that small ser­vice of me!” snarled Snape, and re­al anger flared in the thin face now. “You take a great deal for grant­ed, Dum­ble­dore! Per­haps I have changed my mind!”

“You gave me your word, Severus. And while we are talk­ing about ser­vices you owe me, I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin friend?”

Snape looked an­gry, muti­nous. Dum­ble­dore sighed.

“Come to my of­fice tonight, Severus, at eleven, and you shall not com­plain that I have no con­fi­dence in you…”

They were back in Dum­ble­dore’s of­fice, the win­dows dark, and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat quite still, as Dum­ble­dore walked around him, talk­ing.

“Har­ry must not know, not un­til the last mo­ment, not un­til it is nec­es­sary, oth­er­wise how could he have the strength to do what must be done?”

“But what must he do?”

“That is be­tween Har­ry and me. Now lis­ten close­ly, Severus. There will come a time – af­ter my death – do not ar­gue, do not in­ter­rupt! There will come a time when Lord Volde­mort will seem to fear for the life of his snake.”

“For Nagi­ni?” Snape looked as­ton­ished.

“Pre­cise­ly. If there comes a time when Lord Volde­mort stops send­ing that snake forth to do his bid­ding, but keeps it safe be­side him un­der mag­ical pro­tec­tion, then, I think, it will be safe to tell Har­ry.”

“Tell him what?”

Dum­ble­dore took a deep breath and closed his eyes.

“Tell him that on the night Lord Volde­mort tried to kill him, when Lily cast her own life be­tween them as a shield, the Killing Curse re­bound­ed up­on Lord Volde­mort, and a frag­ment of Volde­mort’s soul was blast­ed apart from the whole, and latched it­self on­to the on­ly liv­ing soul left in that col­lapsed build­ing. Part of Lord Volde­mort lives in­side Har­ry, and it is that which gives him the pow­er of speech with snakes, and a con­nec­tion with Lord Volde­mort’s mind that he has nev­er un­der­stood. And while that frag­ment of soul, un­missed by Volde­mort, re­mains at­tached to and pro­tect­ed by Har­ry, Lord Volde­mort can­not die.”

Har­ry seemed to be watch­ing the two men from one end of a long tun­nel, they were so far away from him, their voic­es echo­ing strange­ly in his ears.

“So the boy…the boy must die?” asked Snape quite calm­ly.

“And Volde­mort him­self must do it, Severus. That is es­sen­tial.”

An­oth­er long si­lence. Then Snape said, “I thought…all those years…that we were pro­tect­ing him for her. For Lily.”

“We have pro­tect­ed him be­cause it has been es­sen­tial to teach him, to raise him, to let him try his strength,” said Dum­ble­dore, his eyes still tight shut. “Mean­while, the con­nec­tion be­tween them grows ev­er stronger, a par­asitic growth. Some­times I have thought he sus­pects it him­self. If I know him, he will have ar­ranged mat­ters so that when he does set out to meet his death, it will tru­ly mean the end of Volde­mort.”

Dum­ble­dore opened his eyes. Snape looked hor­ri­fied.

“You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right mo­ment?”

“Don’t be shocked, Severus. How many men and wom­en have you watched die?”

“Late­ly, on­ly those whom I could not save,” said Snape. He stood up. “You have used me.”

“Mean­ing?”

“I have spied for you and lied for you, put my­self in mor­tal dan­ger for you. Ev­ery­thing was sup­posed to be to keep Lily Pot­ter’s son safe. Now you tell me you have been rais­ing him like a pig for slaugh­ter – ”

“But this is touch­ing, Severus,” said Dum­ble­dore se­ri­ous­ly. “Have you grown to care for the boy, af­ter all?”

“For him?” shout­ed Snape. “Ex­pec­to Pa­tron­um!”

From the tip of his wand burst the sil­ver doe. She land­ed on the of­fice floor, bound­ed once across the of­fice, and soared out of the win­dow. Dum­ble­dore watched her fly away, and as her sil­very glow fad­ed he turned back to Snape, and his eyes were full of tears.

“Af­ter all this time?”

“Al­ways,” said Snape.

And the scene shift­ed. Now, Har­ry saw Snape talk­ing to the por­trait of Dum­ble­dore be­hind his desk.

“You will have to give Volde­mort the cor­rect date of Har­ry’s de­par­ture from his aunt and un­cle’s,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Not to do so will raise sus­pi­cion, when Volde­mort be­lieves you so well in­formed. How­ev­er, you must plant the idea of de­coys; that, I think, ought to en­sure Har­ry’s safe­ty. Try Con­fund­ing Mundun­gus Fletch­er. And Severus, if you are forced to take part in the chase, be sure to act your part con­vinc­ing­ly…I am count­ing up­on you to re­main in Lord Volde­mort’s good books as long as pos­si­ble, or Hog­warts will be left to the mer­cy of the Car­rows…”

Now Snape was head to head with Mundun­gus in an un­fa­mil­iar tav­ern, Mundun­gus’s face look­ing cu­ri­ous­ly blank, Snape frown­ing in con­cen­tra­tion.

“You will sug­gest to the Or­der of the Phoenix,” Snape mur­mured, “that they use de­coys. Polyjuice Po­tion. Iden­ti­cal Pot­ters. It’s the on­ly thing that might work. You will for­get that I have sug­gest­ed this. You will present it as your own idea. You un­der­stand?”

“I un­der­stand,” mur­mured Mundun­gus, his eyes un­fo­cused…

Now Har­ry was fly­ing along­side Snape on a broom­stick through a clear dark night: He was ac­com­pa­nied by oth­er hod­ded Death Eaters, and ahead were Lupin and a Har­ry who was re­al­ly George… A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised his wand, point­ing it di­rect­ly at Lupin’s back.

“Sec­tum­sem­pra!” shout­ed Snape.

But the spell, in­tend­ed for the Death Eater’s wand hand, missed and hit George in­stead –

And next, Snape was kneel­ing in Sir­ius’s old bed­room. Tears were drip­ping from the end of his hooked nose as he read the old let­ter from Lily. The sec­ond page car­ried on­ly a few words:



could ev­er have been friends with Gellert Grindel­wald. I think her mind’s go­ing, per­son­al­ly!



Lots of love,

Lily



Snape took the page bear­ing Lily’s sig­na­ture, and her love, and tucked it in­side his robes. Then he ripped in two the pho­to­graph he was al­so hold­ing, so that he kept the part from which Lily laughed, throw­ing the por­tion show­ing James and Har­ry back on­to the floor, un­der the chest of draw­ers…

And now Snape stood again in the head­mas­ter’s study as Phineas Nigel­lus came hur­ry­ing in­to his por­trait.

“Head­mas­ter! They are camp­ing in the For­est of Dean! The Mud­blood – ”

“Do not use that word!”

“ – the Granger girl, then, men­tioned the place as she opened her bag and I heard her!”

“Good. Very good!” cried the por­trait of Dum­ble­dore be­hind the head­mas­ter’s chair. “Now, Severus, the sword! Do not for­get that it must be tak­en un­der con­di­tions of need and val­or – and he must not know that you give it! If Volde­mort should read Har­ry’s mind and see you act­ing for him – ”

“I know,” said Snape curt­ly. He ap­proached the por­trait of Dum­ble­dore and pulled at its side. It swung for­ward, re­veal­ing a hid­den cav­ity be­hind it from which he took the sword of Gryffind­or.

“And you still aren’t go­ing to tell me why it’s so im­por­tant to give Pot­ter the sword?” said Snape as he swung a trav­el­ing cloak over his robes.

“No, I don’t think so,” said Dum­ble­dore’s por­trait. “He will know what to do with it. And Severus, be very care­ful, they may not take kind­ly to your ap­pear­ance af­ter George Weasley’s mishap – ”

Snape turned at the door.

“Don’t wor­ry, Dum­ble­dore,” he said cool­ly. “I have a plan…”

And Snape left the room. Har­ry rose up out of the Pen­sieve, and mo­ments lat­er he lay on the car­pet­ed floor in ex­act­ly the same rooms Snape might just have closed the door.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR


THE FOR­EST AGAIN



Fi­nal­ly, the truth. Ly­ing with his face pressed in­to the dusty car­pet of the of­fice where he had once thought he was learn­ing the se­crets of vic­to­ry, Har­ry un­der­stood at last that he was not sup­posed to sur­vive. His job was to walk calm­ly in­to Death’s wel­com­ing arms. Along the way, he was to dis­pose of Volde­mort’s re­main­ing links to life, so that when at last he flung him­self across Volde­mort’s path, and did not raise a wand to de­fend him­self, the end would be clean, and the job that ought to have been done in Go­dric’s Hol­low would be fin­ished. Nei­ther would live, nei­ther could sur­vive.

He felt his heart pound­ing fierce­ly in his chest. How strange that in his dread of death, it pumped all the hard­er, valiant­ly keep­ing him alive. But it would have to stop, and soon. Its beats were num­bered. How many would there be time for, as he rose and walked through the cas­tle for the last time, out in­to the grounds and in­to the for­est?

Ter­ror washed over him as he lay on the floor, with that fu­ner­al drum pound­ing in­side him. Would it hurt to die? All those times he had thought that it was about to hap­pen and es­caped, he had nev­er re­al­ly thought of the thing it­self: His will to live had al­ways been so much stronger than his fear of death. Yet it did not oc­cur to him now to try to es­cape, to out­run Volde­mort. It was over, he knew it, and all that was left was the thing it­self: dy­ing.

If he could on­ly have died on that sum­mer’s night when he had left num­ber four, Priv­et Drive, for the last time, when the no­ble phoenix feath­er wand had saved him! If he could on­ly have died like Hed­wig, so quick­ly he would not have known it had hap­pened! Or if he could have launched him­self in front of a wand to save some­one he loved . . . He en­vied even his par­ents’ deaths now. This cold-​blood­ed walk to his own de­struc­tion would re­quire a dif­fer­ent kind of brav­ery. He felt his fin­gers trem­bling slight­ly and made an ef­fort to con­trol them, al­though no one could see him; the por­traits on the walls were all emp­ty.

Slow­ly, very slow­ly, he sat up, and as he did so he felt more alive and more aware of his own liv­ing body than ev­er be­fore. Why had he nev­er ap­pre­ci­at­ed what a mir­acle he was, brain and nerve and bound­ing heart? It would all be gone . . . or at least, he would be gone from it. His breath came slow and deep, and his mouth and throat were com­plete­ly dry, but so were his eyes.

Dum­ble­dore’s be­tray­al was al­most noth­ing. Of course there had been a big­ger plan: Har­ry had sim­ply been too fool­ish to see it, he re­al­ized that now. He had nev­er ques­tioned his own as­sump­tion that Dum­ble­dore want­ed him alive. Now he saw that his life span had al­ways been de­ter­mined by how long it took to elim­inate all the Hor­crux­es. Dum­ble­dore had passed the job of de­stroy­ing them to him, and obe­di­ent­ly he had con­tin­ued to chip away at the bonds ty­ing not on­ly Volde­mort, but him­self, to life! How neat, how el­egant, not to waste any more lives, but to give the dan­ger­ous task to the boy who had al­ready been marked for slaugh­ter, and whose death would not be a calami­ty, but an­oth­er blow against Volde­mort.

And Dum­ble­dore had known that Har­ry would not duck out, that he would keep go­ing to the end, even though it was his end, be­cause he had tak­en trou­ble to get to know him, hadn’t he? Dum­ble­dore knew, as Volde­mort knew, that Har­ry would not let any­one else die for him now that he had dis­cov­ered it was in his pow­er to stop it. The im­ages of Fred, Lupin, and Tonks ly­ing dead in the Great Hall forced their way back in­to his mind’s eye, and for a mo­ment he could hard­ly breathe. Death was im­pa­tient . . .

But Dum­ble­dore had over­es­ti­mat­ed him. He had failed: The snake sur­vived. One Hor­crux re­mained to bind Volde­mort to the earth, even af­ter Har­ry had been killed. True, that would mean an eas­ier job for some­body. He won­dered who would do it . . . Ron and Hermione would know what need­ed to be done, of course . . . That would have been why Dum­ble­dore want­ed him to con­fide in two oth­ers . . . so that if he ful­filled his true des­tiny a lit­tle ear­ly, they could car­ry on . . .

Like rain on a cold win­dow, these thoughts pat­tered against the hard sur­face of the in­con­tro­vert­ible truth, which was that he must die. I must die. It must end.

Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away, in a far-​off coun­try; he felt as though he had part­ed from them long ago. There would be no good-​byes and no ex­pla­na­tions, he was de­ter­mined of that. This was a jour­ney they could not take to­geth­er, and the at­tempts they would make to stop him would waste valu­able time. He looked down at the bat­tered gold watch he had re­ceived on his sev­en­teenth birth­day. Near­ly half of the hour al­lot­ted by Volde­mort for his sur­ren­der had elapsed.

He stood up. His heart was leap­ing against his ribs like a fran­tic bird. Per­haps it knew it had lit­tle time left, per­haps it was de­ter­mined to ful­fill a life­time’s beats be­fore the end. He did not look back as he closed the of­fice door.

The cas­tle was emp­ty. He felt ghost­ly strid­ing through it alone, as if he had al­ready died. The por­trait peo­ple were still miss­ing from their frames; the whole place was eeri­ly still, as if all its re­main­ing lifeblood were con­cen­trat­ed in the Great Hall where the dead and the mourn­ers were crammed.

Har­ry pulled the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak over him­self and de­scend­ed through the floors, at last walk­ing down the mar­ble stair­case in­to the en­trance hall. Per­haps some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed, to be seen, to be stopped, but the Cloak was, as ev­er, im­pen­etra­ble, per­fect, and he reached the front doors eas­ily.

Then Neville near­ly walked in­to him. He was one half of a pair that was car­ry­ing a body in from the grounds. Har­ry glanced down and felt an­oth­er dull blow to his stom­ach: Colon Creevey, though un­der­age, must have sneaked back just as Mal­foy, Crabbe, and Goyle had done. He was tiny in death.

“You know what? I can man­age him alone, Neville,” said Oliv­er Wood, and he heaved Col­in over his shoul­der in a fire­man’s lift and car­ried him in­to the Great Hall.

Neville leaned against the door frame for a mo­ment and wiped his fore­head with the back of his hand. He looked like an old man. Then he set off on the steps again in­to the dark­ness to re­cov­er more bod­ies.

Har­ry took one glance back at the en­trance of the Great Hall. Peo­ple were mov­ing around, try­ing to com­fort each oth­er, drink­ing, kneel­ing be­side the dead, but he could not see any of the peo­ple he loved, no hint of Hermione, Ron, Gin­ny, or any of the oth­er Weasleys, no Lu­na. He felt he would have giv­en all the time re­main­ing to him for just one last look at them; but then, would he ev­er have the strength to stop look­ing? It was bet­ter like this.

He moved down the steps and out in­to the dark­ness. It was near­ly four in the morn­ing, and the death­ly still­ness of the grounds felt as though they were hold­ing their breath, wait­ing to see whether he could do what he must.

Har­ry moved to­ward Neville, who was bend­ing over an­oth­er body.

“Neville.”

“Blimey, Har­ry, you near­ly gave me heart fail­ure!”

Har­ry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out of nowhere, born out of a de­sire to make ab­so­lute­ly sure.

“Where are you go­ing, alone?” Neville asked sus­pi­cious­ly.

“It’s all part of the plan,” said Har­ry. “There’s somet­ing I’ve got to do. Lis­ten --- Neville ---“

“Har­ry!” Neville looked sud­den­ly scared. “Har­ry, you’re not think­ing of hand­ing your­self over?”

“No,” Har­ry lied eas­ily. “’Course not . . . this is some­thing else. But I might be out of sight for a while. You know Volde­mort’s snake. Neville? He’s got a huge snake . . . Calls it Nagi­ni . . .”

“I’ve heard, yeah . . . What about it?”

“It’s got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that, but just in case they ---“

The aw­ful­ness of that pos­si­bil­ity smoth­ered him for a mo­ment, made it im­pos­si­ble to keep talk­ing. But he pulled him­self to­geth­er again: This was cru­cial, he must be like Dum­ble­dore, keep a cool head, make sure there were back­ups, oth­ers to car­ry on. Dum­ble­dore had died know­ing that three peo­ple still knew about the Hor­crux­es; now Neville would take Har­ry’s place: There would still be three in the se­cret.

“Just in case they’re --- busy --- and you get the chance ---“

“Kill the snake?”

“Kill the snake,” Har­ry re­peat­ed.

“All right, Har­ry. You’re okay, are you?”

“I’m fine. Thanks, Neville.”

But Neville seized his wrist as Har­ry made to move on.

“We’re all go­ing to keep fight­ing, Har­ry. You know that?”

“Yeah, I ---“

The suf­fo­cat­ing feel­ing ex­tin­guished the end of the sen­tence; he could not go on. Neville did not seem to find it strange. He pat­ted Har­ry on the shoul­der, re­leased him, and walked away to look for more bod­ies.

Har­ry swung the Cloak back over him­self and walked on. Some­one else was mov­ing not far away, stoop­ing over an­oth­er prone fig­ure on the ground. He was feet away from her when he re­al­ized it was Gin­ny.

He stopped in his tracks. She was crouch­ing over a girl who was whis­per­ing for her moth­er.

“It’s all right,” Gin­ny was say­ing. “It’s ok. We’re go­ing to get you in­side.”

“But I want to go home,” whis­pered the girl. “I don’t want to fight any­more!”

“I know,” said Gin­ny, and her voice broke. “It’s go­ing to be all right.”

Rip­ples of cold un­du­lat­ed over Har­ry’s skin. He want­ed to shout out to the night, he want­ed Gin­ny to know that he was there, he want­ed her to know where he was go­ing. He want­ed to be stopped, to be dragged back, to be sent back home. . . .

But he was home. Hog­wards was the first and best home he had known. He and Volde­mort and Snape, the aban­doned boys, had all found home here. . . .

Gin­ny was kneel­ing be­side the in­jured girl now, hold­ing her hand. With a huge ef­fort Har­ry forced him­self on. He thought he saw Gin­ny look around as he passed, and won­dered whether she had sensed some­one walk­ing near­by, but he did not speak, and he did not look back.

Ha­grid’s hut loomed out of the dark­ness. There were no lights, no sound of Fang scrab­bling at the door, his bark boom­ing in wel­come. All those vis­its to Ha­grid, and the gleam of the cop­per ket­tle on the fire, and rock cakes and gi­ant grubs, and his great beard­ed face, and Ron vom­it­ing slugs, and Hermione help­ing him save Nor­bert . . .

He moved on, and now he reached the edge of the for­est, and he stopped.

A swarm of de­men­tors was glid­ing amongst the trees; he could feel their chill, and he was not sure he would be able to pass safe­ly through it. He had not strength left for a Pa­tronus. He could no longer con­trol his own trem­bling. It was not, af­ter all, so easy to die. Ev­ery sec­ond he breathed, the smell of the grass, the cool air on his face, was so pre­cious: To think that peo­ple had years and years, time to waste, so much time it dragged, and he was cling­ing to each sec­ond. At the same time he thought that he would not be able to go on, and knew that he must. The long game was end­ed, the Snitch had been caught, it was time to leave the air. . . .

The Snitch. His nerve­less fin­gers fum­bled for a mo­ment with the pouch at his neck and he pulled it out.

I open at the close.

Breath­ing fast and hard, he stared down at it. Now that he want­ed time to move as slow­ly as pos­si­ble, he seemed to have sped up, and un­der­stand­ing was com­ing so fast it seemed to have by­passed though. This was the close. This was the mo­ment.

He pressed the gold­en met­al to his lips and whis­pered, “I am about to die.”

The met­al shell broke open. He low­ered his shak­ing hand, raised Dra­co’s wand be­neath the Cloak, and mur­mured, “Lu­mos.”

The black stone with is jagged crack run­ning down the cen­ter sat in the two halves of the Snitch. The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone had cracked down the ver­ti­cal line rep­re­sent­ing the El­der Wand. The tri­an­gle and cir­cle rep­re­sent­ing the Cloak and the stone were still dis­cernible.

And again Har­ry un­der­stood with­out hav­ing to think. It did not mat­ter about bring­ing them back, for he was about to join them. He was not re­al­ly fetch­ing them: They were fetch­ing him.

He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times.

He knew it had hap­pened, be­cause he heard slight move­ments around him that sug­gest­ed frail bod­ies shift­ing their foot­ing on the earthy, twig-​strewn ground that marked the out­er edge of the for­est. He opened his eyes and looked around.

They were nei­ther ghost nor tru­ly flesh, he could see that. They re­sem­bled most close­ly the Rid­dle that had es­caped from the di­ary so long ago, and he had been mem­ory made near­ly sol­id. Less sub­stan­tial than liv­ing bod­ies, but much more than ghosts, they moved to­ward him. And on each face, there was the same lov­ing smile.

James was ex­act­ly the same height as Har­ry. He was wear­ing the clothes in which he had died, and his hair was un­tidy and ruf­fled, and his glass­es were a lit­tle lop­sid­ed, like Mr. Weasley’s.

Sir­ius was tall and hand­some, and younger by far than Har­ry had seen him in life. He loped with an easy grace, his hands in his pock­ets and a grin on his face.

Lupin was younger too, and much less shab­by, and his hair was thick­er and dark­er. He looked hap­py to be back in this fa­mil­iar place, scene of so many ado­les­cent wan­der­ings.

Lily’s smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew clos­er to him, and her green eyes, so like his, searched his face hun­gri­ly, as though she would nev­er be able to look at him enough.

“You’ve been so brave.”

He could not speak. His eyes feast­ed on her, and he thought that he would like to stand and look at her for­ev­er, and that would be enough.

“You are near­ly there,” said James. “Very close. We are . . . so proud of you.”

“Does it hurt?”

The child­ish ques­tion had fall­en from Har­ry’s lips be­fore he could stop it.

“Dy­ing? Not at all,” said Sir­ius. “Quick­er and eas­ier than falling asleep.”

“And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over,” said Lupin.

“I didn’t want you to die,” Har­ry said. These words came with­out his vo­li­tion. “Any of you. I’m sor­ry ---“

He ad­dressed Lupin more than any of them, be­seech­ing him.

“--- right af­ter you’d had your son . . . Re­mus, I’m sor­ry ---“

“I am sor­ry too,” said Lupin. “Sor­ry I will nev­er know him . . . but he will know why I died and I hope he will un­der­stand. I was try­ing to make a world in which he could live a hap­pi­er life.”

A chilly breeze that seemed to em­anate from the heart of the for­est lift­ed the hair at Har­ry’s brow. He knew that they would not tell him to go, that it would have to be his de­ci­sion.

“You’ll stay with me?”

“Un­til the very end,” said James.

“They won’t be able to see you?” asked Har­ry.

“We are part of you,” said Sir­ius. “In­vis­ible to any­one else.”

Har­ry looked at his moth­er.

“Stay close to me,” he said qui­et­ly.

And he set of. The de­men­tors’ chill did not over­come him; he passed through it with his com­pan­ions, and they act­ed like Pa­tronus­es to him, and to­geth­er they marched through the old trees that grew close­ly to­geth­er, their branch­es tan­gled, their roots gnarled and twist­ed un­der­foot. Har­ry clutched the Cloak tight­ly around him in the dark­ness, trav­el­ing deep­er and deep­er in­to the for­est, with no idea where ex­act­ly Volde­mort was, but sure that he would find him. Be­side him, mak­ing scarce­ly a sound, walked James, Sir­ius, Lupin, and Lily, and their pres­ence was his courage, and the rea­son he was able to keep putting one foot in front of the oth­er.

His body and mind felt odd­ly dis­con­nect­ed now, his limbs work­ing with­out con­scious in­struc­tion, as if he were pas­sen­ger, not driv­er, in the body he was about to leave. The dead who walked be­side him through the for­est were much more re­al to him now than the liv­ing back at the cas­tle: Ron, Hermione, Gin­ny, and all the oth­ers were the ones who felt like ghosts as he stum­bled and slipped to­ward the end of his life, to­ward Volde­mort . . .

A thud and a whis­per: Some oth­er liv­ing crea­ture had stirred close by. Har­ry stopped un­der the Cloak, peer­ing around, lis­ten­ing, and his moth­er and fa­ther, Lupin and Sir­ius stopped too.

“Some­one there,” came a rough whis­per close at hand. “He’s got an In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak. Could it be --- ?”

Two fig­ures emerged from be­hind a near­by tree: Their wands flared, and Har­ry saw Yax­ley and Dolo­hov peer­ing in­to the dark­ness, di­rect­ly at the place Har­ry, his moth­er and fa­ther and Sir­ius and Lupin stood. Ap­par­ent­ly they could not see any­thing.

“Def­inite­ly heard some­thing,” said Yax­ley. “An­imal, d’you reck­on?”

“That head case Ha­grid kept a whole bunch of stuff in here,” said Dolo­hov, glanc­ing over his shoul­der.

Yax­ley looked down at his watch.

“Time’s near­ly up. Porter’s had his hour. He’s not com­ing.”

“Bet­ter go back,” said Yax­ley. “Find out what the plan is now.”

He and Dolo­hov turned and walked deep­er in­to the for­est. Har­ry fol­lowed them, know­ing that they would lead him ex­act­ly where he want­ed to go. He glanced side­ways, and his moth­er smiled at him, and his fa­ther nod­ded en­cour­age­ment.

They had trav­eled on mere min­utes when Har­ry saw light ahead, and Yax­ley and Dolo­hov stepped out in­to a clear­ing that Har­ry knew had been the place where the mon­strous Ar­agog had once lived. The rem­nants of his vast web were there still, but the swarms of de­scen­dants he had spawned had been driv­en out by the Death Eaters, to fight for their cause.

A fire burned in the mid­dle of the clear­ing, and its flick­er­ing light fell over a crowd of com­plete­ly silent, watch­ful Death Eaters. Some of them were still masked and hood­ed; oth­ers showed their faces. Two gi­ants sat on the out­skirts of the group, cast­ing mas­sive shad­ows over the scene, their faces cru­el, rough-​hewn like rock. Har­ry saw Fen­rir, skulk­ing, chew­ing his long nails; the great blond Rowle was dab­bing at his bleed­ing lip. He saw Lu­cius Mal­foy, who looked de­feat­ed and ter­ri­fied, and Nar­cis­sa, whose eyes were sunken and full of ap­pre­hen­sion.

Ev­ery eye was fixed up­on Volde­mort, who stood with his head bowed, and his white hands fold­ed over the El­der Wand in front of him. He might have been pray­ing, or else count­ing silent­ly in his mind, and Har­ry, stand­ing still on the edge of the scene, though ab­surd­ly of a child count­ing in a game of hide-​and-​seek. Be­hind his head, still swirling and coil­ing, the great snake Nagi­ni float­ed in her glit­ter­ing, charmed cage, like a mon­strous ha­lo.

When Dolo­hov and Yax­ley re­joined the cir­cle, Volde­mort looked up.

“No sign of him, my Lord,” said Dolo­hov.

Volde­mort’s ex­pres­sion did not change. The red eyes seemed to burn in the fire­light. Slow­ly he drew the El­der Wand be­tween his long fin­gers.

“My Lord ---“

Bel­la­trix had spo­ken: She sat clos­est to Volde­mort, di­sheveled, her face a lit­tle bloody but oth­er­wise un­harmed.

Volde­mort raised his hand to si­lence her, and she did not speak an­oth­er word, but eyed him in wor­ship­ful fas­ci­na­tion.

“I thought he would come,” said Volde­mort in his high, clear voice, his eyes on the leap­ing flames. “I ex­pect­ed him to come.”

No­body spoke. They seemed as scared as Har­ry, whose heart was now throw­ing it­self against his ribs as though de­ter­mined to es­cape the body he was about to cast aside. His hands were sweat­ing as he pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak and stuffed it be­neath his robes, with his wand. He did not want to be tempt­ed to fight.

“I was, it seems . . . mis­tak­en,” said Volde­mort.

“You weren’t.”

Har­ry said it as loud­ly as he could, with all the force he could muster: He did not want to sound afraid. The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone slipped from be­tween his numb fin­gers, and out of the cor­ner of his eyes he saw his par­ents, Sir­ius, and Lupin van­ish as he stepped for­ward in­to the fire­light. At that mo­ment he felt that no­body mat­tered but Volde­mort. It was just the two of them.

The il­lu­sion was gone as soon as it had come. The gi­ants roared as the Death Eaters rose to­geth­er, and there were many cries, gasps, even laugh­ter. Volde­mort had frozen where he stood, but his red eyes had found Har­ry, and he stared as Har­ry moved to­ward him, with noth­ing but the fire be­tween them.

Then a voice yelled: “HAR­RY! NO!”

He turned: Ha­grid was bound and trussed, tied to a tree near­by. His mas­sive body shook the branch­es over­head as he strug­gled, des­per­ate.

“NO! NO! HAR­RY, WHAT’RE YEH --- ?”

“QUI­ET!” shout­ed Rowle, and with a flick of his wand, Ha­grid was si­lenced.

Bel­la­trix, who had leapt to her feet, was look­ing ea­ger­ly from Volde­mort to Har­ry, her breast heav­ing. The on­ly things that moved were the flames and the snake, coil­ing and un­coil­ing in the glit­ter­ing cage be­hind Volde­mort’s head.

Har­ry could feel his wand against his chest, but he made no at­tempt to draw it. He knew that the snake was too well pro­tect­ed, knew that if he man­aged to point the wand at Nagi­ni, fifty curs­es would hit him first. And still, Volde­mort and Har­ry looked at each oth­er, and now Volde­mort tilt­ed his head a lit­tle to the side, con­sid­er­ing the boy stand­ing be­fore him, and a sin­gu­lar­ly mirth­less smile curled the li­pless mouth.

“Har­ry Pot­ter,” he said very soft­ly. His voice might have been part of the spit­ting fire. “The Boy Who Lived.”

None of the Death Eaters moved. They were wait­ing: Ev­ery­thing was wait­ing. Ha­grid was strug­gling, and Bel­la­trix was pant­ing, and Har­ry thought in­ex­pli­ca­bly of Gin­ny, and her blaz­ing look, and the feel of her lips on his ---

Volde­mort had raised his wand. His head was still tilt­ed to one side, like a cu­ri­ous child, won­der­ing what would hap­pen if he pro­ceed­ed. Har­ry looked back in­to the red eyes, and want­ed it to hap­pen now, quick­ly, while he could still stand, be­fore he lost con­trol, be­fore he be­trayed fear ---

He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light, and ev­ery­thing was gone.





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE


KING’S CROSS

He lay face­down, lis­ten­ing to the si­lence. He was per­fect­ly alone. No­body was watch­ing. No­body else was there. He was not per­fect­ly sure that he was there him­self.

A long time lat­er, or maybe no time at all, it came to him that he must ex­ist, must be more than dis­em­bod­ied thought, be­cause he was ly­ing, def­inite­ly ly­ing, on some sur­face. There­fore he had a sense of touch, and the thing against which he lay ex­ist­ed too.

Al­most as soon as he had reached this con­clu­sion, Har­ry be­came con­scious that he was naked. Con­vinced as he was of his to­tal soli­tude, this did not con­cern him, but it did in­trigue him slight­ly. He won­dered whether, as he could feel, he would be able to see. In open­ing them, he dis­cov­ered that he had eyes.

He lay in a bright mist, though it was not like mist he had ev­er ex­pe­ri­enced be­fore. His sur­round­ings were not hid­den by cloudy va­por; rather the cloudy va­por had not yet formed in­to sur­round­ings. The floor on which he lay seemed to be white, nei­ther warm nor cold, but sim­ply there, a flat, blank some­thing on which to be.

He sat up. His body ap­peared un­scathed. He touched his face. He was not wear­ing glass­es any­more.

Then a noise reached him through the un­formed noth­ing­ness that sur­round­ed him: the small soft thump­ings of some­thing that flapped, flailed, and strug­gled. It was a piti­ful noise, yet al­so slight­ly in­de­cent. He had the un­com­fort­able feel­ing that he was eaves­drop­ping on some­thing furtive, shame­ful.

For the first time, he wished he were clothed.

Bare­ly had the wish formed in his head than robes ap­peared a short dis­tance away. He took them and pulled them on. They were soft, clean, and warm. It was ex­traor­di­nary how they had ap­peared just like that, the mo­ment he had want­ed them. . . .

He stood up, look­ing around. Was he in some great Room of Re­quire­ment? The longer he looked, the more there was to see. A great domed glass roof glit­tered high above him in sun­light. Per­haps it was a palace. All was hushed and still, ex­cept for those odd thump­ing and whim­per­ing nois­es com­ing from some­where close by in the mist. . . .

Har­ry turned slow­ly on the spot, and his sur­round­ings seemed to in­vent them­selves be­fore his eyes. A wide-​open space, bright and clean, a hall larg­er by far than the Great Hall, with that clear domed glass ceil­ing. It was quite emp­ty. He was the on­ly per­son there, ex­cept for –

He re­coiled. He had spot­ted the thing that was mak­ing the nois­es. It had the form of a small, naked child, curled on the ground, its skin raw and rough, flayed-​look­ing, and it lay shud­der­ing un­der a seat where it had been left, un­want­ed, stuffed out of sight, strug­gling for breath.

He was afraid of it. Small and frag­ile and wound­ed though it was, he did not want to ap­proach it. Nev­er­the­less he drew slow­ly near­er, ready to jump back at any mo­ment. Soon he stood near enough to touch it, yet he could not bring him­self to do it. He felt like a cow­ard. He ought to com­fort it, but it re­pulsed him.

“You can­not help.”

He spun around. Al­bus Dum­ble­dore was walk­ing to­ward him, spright­ly and up­right, wear­ing sweep­ing robes of mid­night blue.

“Har­ry.” He spread his arms wide, and his hands were both whole and white and un­dam­aged. “You won­der­ful boy. You brave, brave man. Let us walk.”

Stunned, Har­ry fol­lowed as Dum­ble­dore strode away from where the flayed child lay whim­per­ing, lead­ing him to two seats that Har­ry had not pre­vi­ous­ly no­ticed, set some dis­tance away un­der that high, sparkling ceil­ing. Dum­ble­dore sat down in one of them, and Har­ry fell in­to the oth­er, star­ing at his old head­mas­ter’s face. Dum­ble­dore’s long sil­ver hair and beard, the pierc­ing­ly blue eyes be­hind half-​moon spec­ta­cles, the crooked nose: Ev­ery­thing was as he had re­mem­bered it. And yet . . .

“But you’re dead,” said Har­ry.

“Oh yes,” said Dum­ble­dore mat­ter-​of-​fact­ly.

“Then . . . I’m dead too?”

“Ah,” said Dum­ble­dore, smil­ing still more broad­ly. “That is the ques­tion, isn’t it? On the whole, dear boy, I think not.”

They looked at each oth­er, the old man still beam­ing.

“Not?” re­peat­ed Har­ry.

“Not,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“But . . .” Har­ry raised his hand in­stinc­tive­ly to­ward the light­ning scar. It did not seem to be there. “But I should have died – I didn’t de­fend my­self! I meant to let him kill me!”

“And that,” said Dum­ble­dore, “will, I think, have made all the dif­fer­ence.”

Hap­pi­ness seemed to ra­di­ate from Dum­ble­dore like light; like fire: Har­ry had nev­er seen the man so ut­ter­ly, so pal­pa­bly con­tent.

“Ex­plain,” said Har­ry.

“But you al­ready know,” said Dum­ble­dore. He twid­dled his thumbs to­geth­er.

“I let him kill me,” said Har­ry. “Didn’t I?”

“You did,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding. “Go on!”

“So the part of his soul that was in me . . .”

Dum­ble­dore nod­ded still more en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly, urg­ing Har­ry on­ward, a broad smile of en­cour­age­ment on his face.

“. . . has it gone?”

“Oh yes!” said Dum­ble­dore. “Yes, he de­stroyed it. Your soul is whole, and com­plete­ly your own, Har­ry.”

“But then . . .”

Har­ry trem­bled over his shoul­der to where the small, maimed crea­ture trem­bled un­der the chair.

“What is that, Pro­fes­sor?”

“some­thing that is be­yond ei­ther of our help,” said Dum­ble­dore.

“But if Volde­mort used the Killing Curse,” Har­ry start­ed again, “and no­body died for me this time – how can I be alive?”

“I think you know,” said Dum­ble­dore. “Think back. Re­mem­ber what he did, in his ig­no­rance, in his greed and his cru­el­ty.”

Har­ry thought. He let his gaze drift over his sur­round­ings. If it was in­deed a palace in which they sat, it was an odd one, with chairs set in lit­tle rows and bits of rail­ing here and there, and still, he and Dum­ble­dore and the stunt­ed crea­tures un­der the chair were the on­ly be­ings there. Then the an­swer rose to his lips eas­ily, with­out ef­fort.

“He took my blood,” said Har­ry.

“Pre­cise­ly!” said Dum­ble­dore. “He took your blood and re­built his liv­ing body with it! Your blood in his veins, Har­ry, Lily’s pro­tec­tion in­side both of you! He thethered you to life while he lives!”

“I live . . . while he lives? But I thought . . . I thought it was the oth­er way around! I thought we both had to die? Or is it the same thing?”

He was dis­tract­ed by the whim­per­ing and thump­ing of the ag­onized crea­ture be­hind them and glanced back at it yet again.

“Are you sure we can’t do any­thing?”

“There is no help pos­si­ble.”

“Then ex­plain . . . more,” said Har­ry, and Dum­ble­dore smiled.

“You were the sev­enth Hor­crux, Har­ry, the Hor­crux he nev­er meant to make. He had ren­dered his soul so un­sta­ble that it broke apart when he com­mit­ted those acts of un­speak­able evil, the mur­der of your par­ents, the at­tempt­ed killing of a child. But what es­caped from that room was even less than he knew. He left more than his body be­hind. He left part of him­self latched to you, the would-​be vic­tim who had sur­vived.

“And his knowl­edge re­mained woe­ful­ly in­com­plete, Har­ry! That which Volde­mort does not val­ue, he takes no trou­ble to com­pre­hend. Of house-​elves and chil­dren’s tales, of love, loy­al­ty, and in­no­cence, Volde­mort knows and un­der­stands noth­ing. Noth­ing. That they all have a pow­er be­yond his own, a pow­er be­yond the reach of any mag­ic, is a truth he has nev­er grasped.

“He took your blood be­liev­ing it would strength­en him. He took in­to his body a tiny part of the en­chant­ment your moth­er laid up­on you when she died for you. His body keeps her sacrafice alive, and while that en­chant­ment sur­vives, so do you and so does Volde­mort’s one last hope for him­self.”

Dum­ble­dore smiled at Har­ry, and Har­ry stared at him.

“And you knew this? You knew – all along?”

“I guessed. But my guess­es have usu­al­ly been good,” said Dum­ble­dore hap­pi­ly, and they sat in si­lence for what seemed like a long time, while the crea­ture be­hind them con­tin­ued to whim­per and trem­ble.

“There’s more,” said Har­ry. “There’s more to it. Why did my wand break the wand he bor­rowed?”

“As to that, I can­not be sure.”

“Have a guess, then,” said Har­ry, and Dum­ble­dore laughed.

“What you must un­der­stand, Har­ry, is that you and Lord Volde­mort have jour­neyed to­geth­er in­to realms of mag­ic hith­er­to un­known and untest­ed. But here is what I think hap­pened, and it is un­prece­dent­ed, and no wand­mak­er could, I think, ev­er have pre­dict­ed or ex­plained it to Volde­mort.

“With­out mean­ing to, as you now know, Lord Volde­mort dou­bled the bond be­tween you when he re­turned to a hu­man form. A part of his soul was still at­tached to yours, and, think­ing to strength­en him­self, he took a part of your moth­er’s sacrafice in­to him­self. If he could on­ly have un­der­stood the pre­cise and ter­ri­ble pow­er of that sac­ri­fice, he would not, per­haps, have dared to touch your blood. . . . But then, if he had been able to un­der­stand, he could not be Lord Volde­mort, and might nev­er have mur­dered at all.

“Hav­ing en­sured this two-​fold con­nec­tion, hav­ing wrapped your des­tinies to­geth­er more se­cure­ly than ev­er two wiz­ards were joined in his­to­ry, Volde­mort pro­ceed­ed to at­tack you with a wand that shared a core with yours. And now some­thing very strange hap­pened, as we know. The cores re­act­ed in a way that Lord Volde­mort, who nev­er knew that your wand was a twin of his, had ev­er ex­pect­ed.

“He was more afraid than you were that night, Har­ry. You had ac­cept­ed, even em­braced, the pos­si­bil­ity of death, some­thing Lord Volde­mort has nev­er been able to do. Your courage won, your wand over­pow­ered his. And in do­ing so, some­thing hap­pened be­tween those wands, some­thing that echoed the re­la­tion­ship be­tween their mas­ters.

“I be­lieve that your wand im­bibed some of the pow­er and qual­ities of Volde­mort’s wand that night, which is to say that it con­tained a lit­tle of Volde­mort him­self. So your wand rec­og­nized him when he pur­sued you, rec­og­nized a man who was both kin and mor­tal en­emy, and it re­gur­gi­tat­ed some of his own mag­ic against him, mag­ic much more pow­er­ful than any­thing Lu­cius’s wand had ev­er per­formed. Your wand now con­tained the pow­er of your enor­mous courage and of Volde­mort’s own dead­ly skill: What chance did that poor stick of Lu­cius Mal­foy’s stand?”

“But if my wand was so pow­er­ful, how come Hermione was able to break it?” asked Har­ry.

“My dear boy, its re­mark­able ef­fects were di­rect­ed on­ly at Volde­mort, who had tam­pered so ill-​ad­vis­ed­ly with the deep­est laws of mag­ic. On­ly to­ward him was that wand ab­nor­mal­ly pow­er­ful. Oth­er­wise it was a wand like any oth­er . . . though a good one, I am sure,” Dum­ble­dore fin­ished kind­ly.

Har­ry sat in thought for a long time, or per­haps sec­onds. It was very hard to be sure of things like time, here.

“He killed me with your wand.”

“He failed to kill you with my wand,” Dum­ble­dore cor­rect­ed Har­ry. “I think we can agree that you are not dead – though, of course,” he added, as if fear­ing he had been dis­cour­te­ous, “I do not min­imize your suf­fer­ings, which I am sure were se­vere.”

“I feel great at the mo­ment, though,” said Har­ry, look­ing down at his clean, un­blem­ished hands. “Where are we, ex­act­ly?”

“Well, I was go­ing to ask you that,” said Dum­ble­dore, look­ing around. “Where would you say that we are?”

Un­til Dum­ble­dore had asked, Har­ry had not known. Now, how­ev­er, he found that he had an an­swer ready to give.

“It looks,” he said slow­ly, “like King’s Cross sta­tion. Ex­cept a lo clean­er and emp­ty, and there are no trains as far as I can see.”

“King’s Cross sta­tion!” Dum­ble­dore was chuck­ling im­mod­er­ate­ly. “Good gra­cious, re­al­ly?”

“Well, where do you think we are?” asked Har­ry, a lit­tle de­fen­sive­ly.

“My dear boy, I have no idea. This is, as they say, your par­ty.”

Har­ry had no idea what this meant; Dum­ble­dore was be­ing in­fu­ri­at­ing. He glared at him, then re­mem­bered a much more press­ing ques­tion than that of their cur­rent lo­ca­tion.

“The Death­ly Hal­lows,” he said, and he was glad to see that the words wiped the smile from Dum­ble­dore’s face.

“Ah, yes,” he said. He even looked a lit­tle wor­ried.

“Well?”

For the first time since Har­ry had met Dum­ble­dore, he looked less than an old man, much less. He looked fleet­ing­ly like a small boy caught in wrong­do­ing.

“Can you for­give me?” he said. “Can you for­give me for not trust­ing you? For not telling you? Har­ry, I on­ly feared that you would fail as I had failed. I on­ly dread­ed that you would make my mis­takes. I crave your par­don, Har­ry. I have known, for some time now, that you are the bet­ter man.”

“What are you talk­ing about?” asked Har­ry, star­tled by Dum­ble­dore’s tone, by the sud­den tears in his eyes.

“The Hal­lows, the Hal­lows,” mur­mured Dum­ble­dore. “A des­per­ate man’s dream!”

“But they’re re­al!”

“Re­al, and dan­ger­ous, and a lure for fools,” said Dum­ble­dore. “And I was such a fool. But you know, don’t you? I have no se­crets from you any­more. You know.”

“What do I know?”

Dum­ble­dore turned his whole body to face Har­ry, and tears still sparkled in the bril­liant­ly blue eyes.

“Mas­ter of death, Har­ry, mas­ter of Death! Was I bet­ter, ul­ti­mate­ly, than Volde­mort?”

“Of course you were,” said Har­ry. “Of course – how can you ask that? You nev­er killed if you could avoid it!”

“True, true,” said Dum­ble­dore, and he was like a child seek­ing re­as­sur­ance. “Yet I too sought a way to con­quer death, Har­ry.”

“Not the way he did,” said Har­ry. Af­ter all his anger at Dum­ble­dore, how odd it was to sit here, be­neath the high, vault­ed ceil­ing, and de­fend Dum­ble­dore from him­self. “Hal­lows, not Hor­crux­es.”

“Hal­lows,” mur­mured Dum­ble­dore, “not Hor­crux­es. Pre­cise­ly.”

There was a pause. The crea­ture be­hind them whim­pered, but Har­ry no longer looked around.

“Grindel­wald was look­ing for them too?” he asked.

Dum­ble­dore closed his eyes for a mo­ment and nod­ded.

“It was the thing, above all, that drew us to­geth­er,” he said qui­et­ly. “Two clever, ar­ro­gant boys with a shared ob­ses­sion. He want­ed to come to Go­dric’s Hol­low, as I am sure you have guessed, be­cause of the grave of Ig­no­tus Peverell. He want­ed to ex­plore the place the third broth­er had died.”

“So it’s true?” asked Har­ry. “All of it? The Peverell broth­ers –”

“—were the three broth­ers of the tale,” said Dum­ble­dore, nod­ding. “Oh yes, I think so. Whether they met Death on a lone­ly road . . . I think it more like­ly that the Peverell broth­ers were sim­ply gift­ed, dan­ger­ous wiz­ards who suc­ceed­ed in cre­at­ing those pow­er­ful ob­jects. The sto­ry of them be­ing Death’s own Hal­lows seems to me the sort of leg­end that might have sprung up around such cre­ations.

“The Cloak, as you know now, trav­eled down through the ages, fa­ther to son, moth­er to daugh­ter, right down to Ig­no­tus’s last liv­ing de­scen­dant, who was born, as Ig­no­tus was, in the vil­lage of Go­dric’s Hol­low.”

Dum­ble­dore smiled at Har­ry.

“Me?”

“You. You have guessed,, I know, why the Cloak was in my pos­ses­sion on the night your par­ents died. James had showed it to me just a few days pre­vi­ous­ly. It ex­plained much of his un­de­tect­ed wrong­do­ing at school! I could hard­ly be­lieve what I was see­ing. I asked to bor­row it, to ex­am­ine it. I had long since giv­en up my dream of unit­ing the Hal­lows, but I could not re­sist, could not help tak­ing a clos­er look. . . . It was a Cloak the likes of which I had nev­er seen, im­mense­ly old, per­fect in ev­ery re­spect . . . and then your fa­ther died, and I had two Hal­lows at last, all to my­self!”

His tone was un­bear­ably bit­ter.

“The Cloak wouldn’t have helped them sur­vive, though,” Har­ry said quick­ly. “Volde­mort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn’t have made them curse-​proof.”

“true,” sighed Dum­ble­dore. “True.”

Har­ry wait­ed, but Dum­ble­dore did not speak, so he prompt­ed him.

“So you’d giv­en up look­ing for the Hal­lows when you saw the Cloak?”

“Oh yes,” said Dum­ble­dore faint­ly. It seemed that he forced him­self to meet Har­ry’s eyes. “You know what hap­pened. You know. You can­not de­spise me more than I de­spise my­self.”

“But I don’t de­spise you –”

“Then you should,” said Dum­ble­dore. He drew a deep breath. “You know the se­cret of my sis­ter’s ill health, what those Mug­gles did, what she be­came. You know how my poor fa­ther sought re­venge, and paid the price, died In Azk­aban. You know how my moth­er gave up her own life to care for Ar­iana.

“I re­sent­ed it, Har­ry.”

Dum­ble­dore stat­ed it bald­ly, cold­ly. He was look­ing now over the top of Har­ry’s head, in­to the dis­tance.

“I was gift­ed, I was bril­liant. I want­ed to es­cape. I want­ed to shine. I want­ed glo­ry.

“Do not mis­un­der­stand me,” he said, and pain crossed the face so that he looked an­cient again. “I loved them, I loved my par­ents, I loved my broth­er and my sis­ter, but I was self­ish, Har­ry, more self­ish than you, who are a re­mark­ably self­less per­son, could pos­si­bly imag­ine.

“So that, when my moth­er died, and I was left the re­spon­si­bil­ity of a dam­aged sis­ter and a way­ward broth­er, I re­turned to my vil­lage in anger and bit­ter­ness. Trapped and wast­ed, I thought! And then of course, he came. . . .”

Dum­ble­dore looked di­rect­ly in­to Har­ry’s eyes again.

“Grindel­wald. You can­not imag­ine how his ideas caught me, Har­ry, in­flamed me. Mug­gles forced in­to sub­servience. We wiz­ards tri­umphant. Grindel­wald and I, the glo­ri­ous young lead­ers of the rev­olu­tion.

“Oh, I had a few scru­ples. I as­suaged my con­science with emp­ty words. It would all be for the greater good, and any harm done would be re­paid a hun­dred­fold in ben­efits for wiz­ards. Did I know, in my heart of hearts, what Gellert Grindel­wald was? I think I did, but I closed my eyes. If the plans we were mak­ing came to fruition, all my dreams would come true.

“And at the heart of our schemes, the Death­ly Hal­lows! How they fas­ci­nat­ed him, how they fas­ci­nat­ed both of us! The un­beat­able wand, the weapon that would lead us to pow­er! The Res­ur­rec­tion Stone – to him, though I pre­tend­ed not to know it, it meant an army of In­feri! To me, I con­fess, it meant the re­turn of my par­ents, and the lift­ing of all re­spon­si­bil­ity from my shoul­ders.

“And the Cloak . . . some­how, we nev­er dis­cussed the Cloak much, Har­ry. Both of us could con­ceal our­selves well enough with­out the Cloak, the true mag­ic of which, of course, is that it can be used to pro­tect and shield oth­ers as well as its own­er. I thought that, if we ev­er found it, it might be use­ful in hid­ing Ar­iana, but our in­ter­est in the Cloak was main­ly that it com­plet­ed the trio, for the leg­end said that the man who had unit­ed all three ob­jects would then be tru­ly mas­ter of death, which we took to mean ‘in­vin­ci­ble.’

“In­vin­ci­ble mas­ters of death, Grindel­wald and Dum­ble­dore! Two months of in­san­ity, of cru­el dreams, and ne­glect of the on­ly two mem­bers of my fam­ily left to me.

“And then . . . you know what hap­pened. Re­al­ity re­turned in the form of my rough, un­let­tered, and in­finite­ly more ad­mirable broth­er. I did not want to hear the truths he shout­ed at me. I did not want to hear that I could not set forth and seek Hal­lows with a frag­ile and un­sta­ble sis­ter in tow.

“The ar­gu­ment be­came a fight. Grindel­wald lost con­trol. That which I had al­ways sensed in him, though I pre­tend­ed not to, now sprang in­to ter­ri­ble be­ing. And Ar­iana . . . af­ter all my moth­er’s care and cau­tion . . . lay dead up­on the floor.”

Dum­ble­dore gave a lit­tle gasp and be­gan to cry in earnest. Har­ry reached out and was glad to find that he could touch him: He gripped his arm tight­ly and Dum­ble­dore grad­ual­ly re­gained con­trol.

“Well, Grindel­wald fled, as any­one but I could have pre­dict­ed. He van­ished, with his plans for seiz­ing pow­er, and his schemes for Mug­gle tor­ture, and his dreams of the Death­ly Hal­lows, dreams in which I had en­cour­aged him and helped him. He ran, while I was left to bury my sis­ter, and learn to live with my guilt and my ter­ri­ble grief, the price of my shame.

“Years passed. There were ru­mors about him. They said he had pro­cured a wand of im­mense pow­er. I, mean­while, was of­fered the post of Min­is­ter of Mag­ic, not once, but sev­er­al times. Nat­ural­ly, I re­fused. I had learned that I was not to be trust­ed with pow­er.”

“But you’d have been bet­ter, much bet­ter, than Fudge or Scim­geour!” burst out Har­ry.

“Would I?” asked Dum­ble­dore heav­ily. “I am not so sure. I had proven, as a very young man, that pow­er was my weak­ness and my temp­ta­tion. It is a cu­ri­ous thing, Har­ry, but per­haps those who are best suit­ed to pow­er are those who have nev­er sought it. Those who, like you, have lead­er­ship thrust up­on them, and take up the man­tle be­cause they must, and find to their own sur­prise that they wear it well.

“I was safer at Hog­warts. I think I was a good teach­er –”

“You were the best ---”

“--- you are very kind, Har­ry. But while I bus­ied my­self with the train­ing of young wiz­ards, Grindel­wald was rais­ing an army. They say he feared me, and per­haps he did, but less, I think, than I feared him.

“Oh, not death,” said Dum­ble­dore, in an­swer to Har­ry’s ques­tion­ing look. “Not what he could do to me mag­ical­ly. I knew that we were even­ly matched, per­haps that I was a shade more skill­ful. It was the truth I feared. You see, I nev­er knew which of us, in that last, hor­rif­ic fight, had ac­tu­al­ly cast the curse that killed my sis­ter. You may call me cow­ard­ly: You would be right, Har­ry. I dread­ed be­yond all things the knowl­edge that it had been I who brought about her death, not mere­ly through my ar­ro­gance and stu­pid­ity, but that I ac­tu­al­ly struck the blow that snuffed out her life.

“I think he knew it, I think he knew what fright­ened me. I de­layed meet­ing him un­til fi­nal­ly, it would have been too shame­ful to re­sist any longer. Peo­ple were dy­ing and he seemed un­stop­pable, and I had to do what I could.

“Well, you know what hap­pened next. I won the du­el. I won the wand.”

An­oth­er si­lence. Har­ry did not ask whether Dum­ble­dore had ev­er found out who struck Ar­iana dead. He did not want to know, and even less did he want Dum­ble­dore to have to tell him. At last he knew what Dum­ble­dore would have seen when he looked in the mir­ror of Erised, and why Dum­ble­dore had been so un­der­stand­ing of the fas­ci­na­tion it had ex­er­cised over Har­ry.

They sat in si­lence for a long time, and the whip­mer­ings of the crea­ture be­hind them bare­ly dis­turbed Har­ry any­more.

At last he said, “Grindel­wald tried to stop Volde­mort go­ing af­ter the wand. He lied, you know, pre­tend­ed he had nev­er had it.”

Dum­ble­dore nod­ded, look­ing down at his lap, tears still glit­ter­ing on the crooked nose.

“They say he showed re­morse in lat­er years, alone in his cell at Nur­men­gard. I hope that is true. I would like to think that he did feel the hor­ror and shame of what he had done. Per­haps that lie to Volde­mort was his at­tempt to make amends . . . to pre­vent Volde­mort from tak­ing the Hal­low . . .”

“. . .or maybe from break­ing in­to your tomb?” sug­gest­ed Har­ry, and Dum­ble­dore dabbed his eyes.

Af­ter an­oth­er short pause Har­ry said, “You tried to use the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone.”

Dum­ble­dore nod­ded.

“When I dis­cov­ered it, af­ter all those years, buried in the aban­doned home of the Gaunts --- the Hal­low I had craved most of all, though in my youth I had want­ed it for very dif­fer­ent rea­sons --- I lost my head, Har­ry. I quite for­got that I was not a Hor­crux, that the ring was sure to car­ry a curse. I picked it up, and I put it on, and for a sec­ond I imag­ined that I was about to see Ar­iana, and my moth­er, and my fa­ther, and to tell them how very, very sor­ry, I was. . . .

“I was such a fool, Har­ry. Af­ter all those years I had learned noth­ing. I was un­wor­thy to unite the Death­ly Hal­lows, I had proved it time and again, and here was fi­nal proof.”

“Why?” said Har­ry. “It was nat­ural! You want­ed to see them again. What’s wrong with that?”

“Maybe a man in a mil­lion could unite the Hal­lows, Har­ry. I was fit on­ly to pos­sess the mean­est of them, the least ex­traor­di­nary. I was fit to own the El­der Wand, and not boast of it, and not to kill with it. I was per­mit­ted to tame and use it, be­cause I took it, not for gain, but to save oth­ers from it.

“But the Cloak, I took out of vain cu­ri­ousi­ty, and so it could nev­er have worked for me as it works for you, its true own­ers. The stone I would have used in an at­tempt to drag back those who are at peace, rather than en­able my self-​sacrafice, as you did. You are the wor­thy pos­ses­sor of the Hal­lows.”

Dum­ble­dore pat­ted Har­ry’s hand, and Har­ry looked up at the old man and smiled; he could not help him­self. How coul dhe re­main an­gry with Dum­ble­dore now?

“Why did you have to make it so dif­fi­cult?”

Dum­ble­dore’s smile was tremu­lous.

“I am afraid I count­ed on Miss Granger to slow you up, Har­ry. I was afraid that your hot head might dom­inate your good heart. I was scared that, if pre­sent­ed out­right with the facts about those tempt­ing ob­jects, you might seize the Hal­lows as I did, at the wrong time, for the wrong rea­sons. If you laid hands on them, I want­ed you to pos­sess them safe­ly. You are the true mas­ter of death, be­cause the true mas­ter does not seek to run away from Death. He ac­cepts that he must die, and un­der­stands that there are far, far worse things in the liv­ing world than dy­ing.”

“And Volde­mort nev­er knew about the Hal­lows?”

“I do not think so, be­cause he did not rec­og­nize the Res­ur­rec­tion Stone he turned in­to a Hor­crux. But even if he had known about them, Har­ry. I doubt that he woul dhave been in­ter­est­ed in any ex­cept the first. He would not think that he need­ed the Cloak, and as for the stone, whom would he want to bring back from the dead? He fears the dead. He does not love.”

“But you ex­pect­ed him to go af­ter the wand?”

“I have been sure that he would try, ev­er since your wand beat Volde­mort’s in the grave­yard of Lit­tle Hangle­ton. At first, he was afraid that you had con­quered him by su­pe­ri­or skill. Once he had kid­napped Ol­li­van­der, how­ev­er, he dis­cov­ered the ex­is­tence of the twin cores. He thought that ex­plained ev­ery­thing. Yet the bor­rowed wand did no bet­ter against yours! So Volde­mort, in­stead of ask­ing him­self what qual­ity it was in you that had made your wand so strong, what gift you pos­sessed that he did not, nat­ural­ly set out to find the one wand that, they said, would beat any oth­er. For him, the El­der Wand has be­come an ob­ses­sion to ri­val his ob­ses­sion with you. He be­lieves that the El­der Wand re­moves his last weak­ness and makes him tru­ly in­vin­ci­ble. Poor Severus . . .”

“If you planned your death with Snape, you meant him to end up with the El­der Wand, didn’t you?”

“I ad­mit that was my in­ten­tion,” said Dum­ble­dore, “but it did not work as I in­tend­ed, did it?”

“No,” said Har­ry. “That bit didn’t work out.”

The crea­ture be­hind them jerked and moaned, and Har­ry and Dum­ble­dore sate with­out talk­ing for the longest time yet. The re­al­iza­tion of what would hap­pen next set­tled grad­ual­ly over Har­ry in the long min­utes, like soft­ly falling snow.

“I’ve got to go back, haven’t I?”

“That is up to you.”

“I’ve got a choice?”

“Oh yes,” Dum­ble­dore smiled at him. “We are in King’s Cross you say? I think that if you de­cid­ed not to go back, you would be able to . . . let’s say . . . board a train.”

“And where would it take me?”

“On,” said Dum­ble­dore sim­ply.

Si­lence again.

“Volde­mort’s got the El­der Wand.”

“True. Volde­mort has the El­der Wand.”

“But you want me to go back?”

“I think,” said Dum­ble­dore, “that if you choose to re­turn, there is a chance that he may be fin­ished for good. I can­not promise it. But I know this, Har­ry, that you have less to fear from re­turn­ing here than he does.”

Har­ry glanced again at the raw look­ing thing that trem­bled and choked in the shad­ow be­neath the dis­tant chair.

“Do not pity the dead, Har­ry. Pity the liv­ing, and above all, those who live with­out love. By re­turn­ing, you may en­sure that few­er souls are maimed, few­er fam­ilies are torn apart. If that seems to you a wor­thy goal, they we saw good-​bye for the present.”

Har­ry nod­ded and sighed. Leav­ing this place would not be near­ly as hard as walk­ing in­to the for­est had been, but it was warm and light and peace­ful here, and he knew that he was head­ing back to pain and the fear of more loss. He stood up, and Dum­ble­dore did the same, and they looked for a long mo­ment in­to each oth­er’s faces.

“Tell me one last thing,” said Har­ry, “Is this re­al? Or has this been hap­pen­ing in­side my head?”

Dum­ble­dore beamed at him, and his voice sound­ed loud and strong in Har­ry’s ears even though the bright mist was de­scend­ing again, ob­scur­ing his fig­ure.

“Of course it is hap­pen­ing in­side your head, Har­ry, but why on earth should that mean it is not re­al?”





Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows





CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX


THE FLAW IN THE PLAN



He was fly­ing face­down on the grond again. The smell of the for­est filled his nos­trils. He could feel

the cold hard ground be­neath his cheek, and the hinge of his glass­es which have been knocked side­ways

by the fall cut­ting in­to his tem­ple. Ev­ery inch of him ached, and the place where Killing Curse had hit him

felt like the bruise of an iron-​clad punch. He did not stir, but he re­mained ex­act­ly where he had fall­en, with

his left arm bent out at an ak­ward an­gle and his mouth gap­ing.

He had ex­pect­ed to hear cheer of tri­umph and ju­bi­la­tion at his death, but in­stead hur­ried foot­steps,

whis­pers, and so­lic­itous mur­murs filled the air.

“My Lord... my Lord...”

It was Bel­la­trix's voice, and she spoke as if to a lover. Har­ry did not dare open his eyes, but al­lowed

his oth­er sens­es to ex­plore his predica­ment. He knew that his wand was still stowed be­neath his robes be­cause

he could feel it pressed be­tween his chest and the ground. A slight cush­ion­ing ef­fect in the area of his stom­ach

told him that the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak was al­so there, stuffed out of sight.

“My Lord...”

“That will do,” said Volde­mort's voice.

More foot­steps. Sev­er­al peo­ple were back­ing away from the same spot. Des­per­ate to see what was

hap­pen­ing and why, Har­ry opened his eyes by a milime­ter.

Volde­mort seemed to be get­ting to his feet. Var­ious Death Eaters were hur­ry­ing away from him,

re­turn­ing to the crowd lin­ing the clear­ing. Bel­la­trix alone re­mained be­hind, kneel­ing be­side Volde­mort.

Har­ry closed his eyes again and con­sid­ered what he had seen. The Death Eaters have been bud­dled

around Volde­mort, who seem to have fall­en to the ground. Some­thing had hap­pened when he had hit Har­ry with

the Killing Curse. Had Volde­mort too col­lapsed? It seemed like it. And both of them had briefly fall­en un­con­cious

and both of them had now re­turned. . .

“My Lord, let me --”

“I do not re­quire as­si­tance,” said Volde­mort cold­ly, and though he could not see it, Har­ry pic­tured

Bel­la­trix with­draw­ing a help­ful hand. “The boy . . . Is he dead?”

There was a com­plete si­lence in the clear­ing. No­body ap­proached Har­ry, but he felt their con­cen­trad­ed

gaze; it seemed to press him hard­er in­to the ground, and he was ter­ri­fied a fin­ger or an eye­lid might twitch.

“You,” said Volde­mort, and there was a bang and a small shrick of pain. “Ex­am­ine him. Tell me whether he is dead.”

Har­ry did not know who had been sent to ver­ify. He could on­ly lie there, with his heart thump­ing traitorous­ly, and wait to be

ex­am­ined, but at the same time noth­ing, small com­fort through it was, that Volde­mort was wary of ap­proach­ing him, that Volde­mort

sus­pect­ed that all had not gone to plan . . . .

Hands, soft­er than he had been ex­pect­ing, touched Har­ry's face, and felt his heart. He could hear the wom­an's fast breath­ing,

her pound­ing of life against his ribs.

“Is Dra­co alive? Is he in the cas­tle?”

The whis­per was bare­ly au­di­ble, her lips were an inch from his car, her head bent so low that her long hair shield­ed his face

from the on­look­ers.

“Yes,” he breathed back.

He felt the hand on his chest con­tract: her nails pierced him. Then it was with­drawn. She had sat up.

“He is dead!” Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy called to the watch­ers.

And now they shout­ed, now they yelled in tri­umph and stamped their feet, and through his eye­lids, Har­ry saw bursts of red

and sil­ver light shoot in­to the air in cel­ebra­tion.

Still feign­ing death on the ground, he un­der­stood. Nar­cis­sa knew that the on­ly way she would be per­mit­ted to en­ter Hog­warts,

and find her son, was as part of the con­quer­ing army. She no longer cared whether Volde­mort won.

“You see?” screeched Volde­mort over the tu­mult. "Har­ry Pot­ter is dead by my hand, and no man alive can threat­en me now!

Watch! Cru­cio!"

Har­ry had been ex­pect­ing it, knew his body would not be al­lowed to re­main un­sul­lied up­on the for­est floor; it must be sub­ject­ed

to hu­mil­ia­tion to prove Volde­mort's vic­to­ry. He was lift­ed in­to the air, and it took all his de­ter­mi­na­tion to re­main limp, yet the pain he

ex­pect­ed did not come. He was thrown once, twice, three times in­to the air. His glass­es flew off and he felt his wand slide a lit­tle be­neath

his robes, but he kept him­self flop­py and life­less, and when he fell no ground for the last time, the clear­ing echoed with jeers and shrieks

of laugh­ter.

“Now,” said Volde­mort, “we go to the cas­tle, and show them what has be­come of their hero. Who shall drag the body? No - Wait - ”

There was a fresh out­break of laugh­ter, and af­ter a few mo­ments Har­ry felt the ground trem­bling be­neath him.

“You car­ry him,” Volde­mort said. "He will be nice and vis­ible in your arms, will he not? Pick up your lit­tle friend, Ha­grid. And the

glass­es - put on the glass­es - he must be rec­og­niz­able - "

Some­one slammed Har­ry's glass­es back on­to his face with de­lib­er­ate force, but the enor­mous hands that lift­ed him in­to the air

were ex­ceed­ing­ly gen­tle. Har­ry could feel Ha­grid's arms trem­bling with the force of his heav­ing sobs; great tears splashed down up­on him

as Ha­grid cra­dled Har­ry in his arms, and Har­ry did not dare, by move­ment or word, to in­ti­mate to Ha­grid that all was not, yet, lost.

“Move,” said Volde­mort, and Ha­grid stum­bled for­ward, forc­ing his way through the close-​grow­ing trees, back through the for­est.

Branch­es caught at Har­ry's hair and robes, but he lay qui­es­cent, his mouth lolling open, his eyes shut, and in the dark­ness, while the

Death Eaters croed all around them, and while Ha­grid sobbed blind­ly, no­body looked to see whether a pulse beat in the ex­posed neck of

Har­ry Pot­ter. . . .

The two gi­ants crashed along be­hind the Death Eaters; Har­ry could hear trees creak­ing and falling as they passed; they made so

much din that birds toes shriek­ing in­to the sky, and even the jeers of the Death Eaters were drowned. The vic­to­ri­ous pro­ces­sion marched

on to­ward the open ground, and af­ter a while Har­ry could tell, by the light­en­ing of the dark­ness through his closed eye­lids, that the trees

were be­gin­ning to thin.

“BANE!”

Ha­grid's un­ex­pect­ed bel­low near­ly forced Har­ry's eyes open. "Hap­py now, are yeh, that yeh didn't fight, yeh cow­ard­ly bunch o' nags?

Are yeh hap­py Har­ry Pot­ter's - d-​dead . . . ?"

Ha­grid could not con­tin­ue, but broke down in fresh tears. Har­ry won­dered how many cen­taurs were watch­ing their pro­ces­sion pass;

he dared not open his eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called in­sults at the cen­taurs as they left them be­hind. A lit­tle lat­er, Har­ry

sensed, by a fresh­en­ing of the air, that they had reached the edge of the for­est.

“Stop.”

Har­ry thought that Ha­grid must have been forced to obey Volde­mort's com­mand, be­cause he lurched a lit­tle. And now a chill set­tled

over them where they sood, and Har­ry heard the rasp­ing breath of the de­men­tors that pa­trolled the oth­er trees. They would not af­fect him now.

The fact of his own sur­vival burned in­side him, a tal­is­man against them, as though his fa­ther's stag kept guardian in his heart.

Some­one passed close by Har­ry, and he knew that it was Volde­mort him­self be­cause he spoke a mo­ment lat­er, his voice mag­ical­ly

mag­ni­fied so that it swelled through the ground, crash­ing up­on Har­ry's eardrums.

"Har­ry Pot­ter is dead. He was killed as he ran away, try­ing to save him­self while you lay down your lives for him. We bring you his

body as proof that your hero is gone.

"The bat­tle is won. You have lost half of your fight­ers. My Death Eaters out­num­ber you, and the Boy Who Lived is fin­ished. There must

be no more war. Any­one who con­tin­ues to re­sist, man, wom­an or child, will be slaugh­tered, as will ev­ery mem­ber of their fam­ily. Come out of the

cas­tle now, kneel be­fore me, and you shall be spared. Your par­ents and chil­dren, your broth­ers and sis­ters will live and be for­giv­en, and you will

join me in the new world we shall build togheter."

There was si­lence in the grounds and from the cas­tle. Volde­mort was so close to him that Har­ry did not dare open his eyes again.

“Come,” said Volde­mort, and Har­ry heard him move ahead, and Ha­grid was forced to fol­low. Now Har­ry opened his eyes a frac­tion, and saw

Volde­mort strid­ing in front them, wear­ing the great snake Nagi­ni around his shoul­ders, now free of her en­chant­ed cage. But Har­ry had no pos­si­bil­ity

of ex­tract­ing the wand con­cealed un­der his robes with­out be­ing no­ticed by the Death Eaters, who marched on the ei­ther side of them through the

slow­ly light­en­ing dark­ness . . . .

“Har­ry,” sobbed Ha­grid. “Oh, Har­ry . . . Har­ry . . .”

Har­ry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were ap­proach­ing the cas­tle and strained his ears to dis­tin­guish, above the glee­ful voic­es

of the Death Eaters and their tramp­ing foot­steps, signs of life from those with­in.

“Stop.”

The Death Eaters camte to a halt; Har­ry heard them spread­ing out in a line fac­ing the op­ne front doors of the school. He could see, even

though his closed lids, the ted­dish glow that meant light streamed up­on him from the en­trance hall. He wait­ed. Any mo­ment, the peo­ple for whom

he had tried to die would see him, ly­ing ap­par­ent­ly dead, in Ha­grid's arms.

“NO!”

The scream was the more ter­ri­ble be­cause he had nev­er ex­pect­ed or dreamed that Pro­fes­sor McG­ona­gall could make such a sound. He heard

an­oth­er wom­en laugh­ing near­by, and knew that Bel­la­trix glo­ried in McG­ona­gall's de­spair. He squint­ed again for a sin­gle sec­ond and saw the open

door­way fill­ing with peo­ple, as the sur­vivors of the bat­tle came out on­to the front steps to face their van­quish­ers and see the truth of Har­ry's death for

them­selves. He saw Volde­mort stand­ing a lit­tle in front of him, stroking Nagi­ni's head with a sin­gle white fin­ger. He closed his eyes again.

“No!”

“No!”

“Har­ry! HAR­RY!”

Ron's, Hermione's, and Gin­ny's voic­es were worse than McG­ona­gall's; Har­ry want­ed noth­ing more than to call back, yet he made him­self lie

silent, and their cries act­ed like a trig­ger; the crowd of sur­vivors took up the cause, scream­ing and yelling abuse at the Death Eathers, un­til -

“SI­LENCE!” cried Volde­mort, and there was a bang and a flash of bright light, and si­lence was forced upn them all. "It is over! Set him down,

Ha­grid, at my feet, where he be­longs!"

Har­ry felt him­self low­ered on­to the grass.

“You see? said Volde­mort, and Har­ry felt him strid­ing back­ward and for­ward right be­side the place where he lay. ”Har­ry Pot­ter is dead! Do you

un­der­stand now, de­lud­ed ones? He was noth­ing, ev­er, but a boy who re­lied on oth­ers to sac­ri­fice them­selves for him!"

“He beat you!” yelled Ron, and the charm broke, and the de­fend­ers of Hog­warts were shout­ing and scream­ing again un­til a sec­ond, more

pow­er­ful bang ex­tin­guished their voic­es once more.

“He was killed while try­ing to sneak out of the cas­tle grounds,” said Volde­mort, and there was a rel­ish in his voice for the lie. "killed while try­ing

to save him­self - "

But Volde­mort broke off: Har­ry heard a scuf­fle and a shout, then an­oth­er bang, a flash of light, and grunt of pain; he opened his eyes an in­finites­imal

amount. Some­one had bro­ken free of the crowd and charged at Volde­mort: Har­ry saw the fig­ure hit the ground. Dis­armed, Volde­mort throw­ing the chal­lenger's

wand aside and laugh­ing.

“And who is this?” he said in his soft snake's hiss. "Who has vol­un­teered to demon­strate what hap­pens to those who con­tin­ue to fight when the

bat­tle is lost?"

Bel­la­trix gave a de­light­ed laugh.

“It is Neville Long­bot­tom, my Lord! The boy who has been giv­ing the Car­rows so much trou­ble! The son of the Au­rors, re­mem­ber?”

“Ah, yes, I re­mem­ber,” said Volde­mort, look­ing down at Neville, who was strug­gling back to his feet, un­armed and un­proc­tect­ed, stand­ing in the

no-​man's-​land be­tween the sur­vivors and the Death Eaters. "But you are a pure­blood, aren't you, my brave boy? Volde­mort asked Neville, who stood fac­ing him,

his emp­ty hands curled in fists.

“So what if I am?” said Neville loud­ly.

“You show spir­it and brav­ery, and you come of no­ble stock. You will make a very valu­able Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville Long­bot­tom.”

“I'll join you when hell freezes over,” said Neville. “Dum­ble­dore's Army!” he shout­ed, and there was an an­swer­ing cheer from the crowd, whom

Volde­mort's Si­lenc­ing Charms seemed un­able to hold.

“Very well,” said Volde­mort, and Har­ry heard more dan­ger in the silk­iness of his voice than in the most pow­er­ful curse. "If that is your choice, Long­bot­tom,

we re­vert to the orig­inal plan. On your head,“ he said qui­et­ly, ”be it."

Still watch­ing through his lash­es, Har­ry saw Volde­mort wave his wand. Sec­onds lat­er, out of one of the cas­tle's shat­tered win­dows, some­thing that looked like a mis­shapen bird flew through the half light and land­ed in Volde­mort's hand. He shook the mildewed ob­ject by its point­ed end and it dan­gled, emt­py and ragged: the Sort­ing Hat.

“There will be no more Sort­ing at Hog­warts School,” said Volde­mort. “There will be no more Hous­es. The em­blem, sheild and col­ors of my no­ble an­ces­tor, Salazar Slyther­ing, will suf­fice ev­ery­one. Won't they, Neville Long­bot­tom?”

He point­ed his wand at Neville, who grew rigid and still, then forced the hat on­to Neville's head, so th­ta it slipped down be­low his eyes. There were move­ments from the watch­ing crowd in front of the cas­tle, and as one, the Death Eaters raised their wands, hold­ing the fight­ers of Hog­warts at bay.

“Neville here is now go­ing to demon­strate what hap­pens to any­one fool­ish enough to con­tin­ue to op­pose me,” said Volde­mort, and with a flick of his wand, he caused the Sort­ing Hat to burst in­to flames.

Screams split the dawn, and Neville was a flame, root­ed to the spot, un­able to move, and Har­ry could not bear it: He must act -

And then many things hap­pened at the same mo­ment.

They heard up­roar from the dis­tant bound­ary of the school as what sound­ed like hun­dreds of peo­ple came swarm­ing over the out-​of-​sight walls and pelt­ed to­ward the cas­tle, ut­ter­ing lowd war cries. At the same time, Grawp came lum­ber­ing around the side of the cas­tel and yelled, “HAG­GER!” His cry was an­swered by roars from Volde­mort's gi­ants: They ran at Grawp like bull ele­phants mak­ing the earth quake. Then came hooves and the twangs of bows, and ar­rows were sud­den­ly falling amongst the Death Eaters, who broke ranks, shout­ing their sur­prise. Har­ry pulled the In­vis­ibilty Cloak from in­side his robes, swunt it over him­self, and sprang to his feet, as Neville moved too.

In one swift, flu­id motin, Neville broke free of the Body-​Bind Curse up­on him; the flam­ing har fell off him and he drew from its depths some­thing sil­ver, with a glit­ter­ing, ru­bied han­dle -

The slash of the sil­ver blade could not be heard over the roar of the on­com­ing crowd or the sounds of the clash­ing gi­ants or of te stam­pend­ing cen­taurs, and yet, it seemd to draw ev­ery eye. With a sin­gle stroke Neville sliced off the great snake's head, which spun high in­to the air, gleam­ing in the light flood­ing from the en­trance hall, and Volde­mort's mouth was open in a scream of fury that no­body could hear, and the snake's body thud­ded to the ground at his feet-

Hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibilty Cloak, Har­ry cast a Shield Charm be­tween Neville and Volde­mort be­fore the lat­ter could raise his stamps of the bat­tling gi­ants, Ha­grid's yell came loudets of all.

“HAR­RY!” Ha­grid shout­ed. “HAR­RY - WHERE'S HAR­RY?”

Chaos reigned. The charg­ing cen­taurs were scat­ter­ing the Death Eaters, ev­ery­one was feel­ing the gi­ants' stamp­ing feet, and near­er and near­ar thun­dered the re­in­force­ments that had come from who knew where; Har­ry saw great winget creat­ues soar­ing the heads of Volde­mort's gi­ants, thes­trals and Buck­beak the hip­pogriff scratch­ing at their eyes while Grawp punched and pum­meled them and now the wiz­ards, de­fend­ers of Hog­warts and Death Eaters alike were be­ing forced back in­to the cas­tle. Har­ry was shoot­ing jinx­es and curs­es at any Death Eater he could see, and they crum­pled, not know­ing what or who had hit them, and their bod­ies were tram­pled by the re­treat­ing crowd. Still hid­den be­neath the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak, Har­ry was buffered in­to the en­trance hall: He was search­ing for Volde­mort and saw him across the room, fir­ing spells from his wand as he backed in­to the Great Hall, still scream­ing in­struc­tions to his fol­low­ers as he sent curs­es fly­ing left and right; Har­ry cast more Shield Charms, and Volde­mort's would-​be vic­tims. Sea­mus Finni­gan and Han­nah Ab­bott, dat­ted past him in­to the Great Hall, where they joined the fight al­ready flour­ish­ing in­side it.

And now there were more, even more peo­ple storm­ing up the front steps, and Har­ry saw Char­lie Weasly over­tak­ing Ho­race Slughorn, who was still wear­ing his emer­al pi­ja­mas. They seemed to have re­turned at the head of what looked like the fam­ilies and friends of ev­ery Hog­warts stu­dent who had re­mained to fight along with the shop­keeps and home­own­ers of Hogsmeade. The cen­taurs Bane, Ro­nan and Mago­ri­an burst in­to the hall with a great clat­ter of hooves, as be­hind Har­ry the door that led to the kitchens was blast­ed off its hinges.

The house-​elves of Hog­warts swarmed in­tot he en­trance hall, scream­ing and wav­ing carv­ing knives and cleaver, and at their head, the lock­er of Reg­ulus Black bounc­ing on his chest, was Kreach­er, his bull­frog's voice au­di­ble even above this din: “Fight! Fight! Fight for my Mas­ter, de­fend­er of house-​elves! Fight the Dark Lord, in the name of brave Reg­ulus! Fight!”

They were hack­ing and stab­bing at the an­kles and shim of Death Eaters their tiny faces alive with mal­ice, and ev­ery­where Har­ry looked Death Eaters were fold­ing un­der sheer weight of num­bers, over­come by spells, drag­ging ar­rows from wounds, stabbed in the leg by elves, or else sim­ply at­tempt­ing to es­cape, but swal­lowed by the on­com­ing horde.

But it was not over yet: Har­ry sped be­tween du­el­ers, past atrug­gling proson­ers, and in­to he Great Hall.

Volde­mort was in the cen­ter of the bat­tle, and he was strik­ing and smit­ing al with­in reach. Har­ry could not get a clear shot, but fought his way near­er, still in­vis­ible, and the Great Hall be­came more and more crowd­ed as ev­ery­one who could walk forced their way in­side.

Har­ry saw Yax­ley slammed tot he floor by George and Lee Jor­dan, saw Dolo­hov fall with a scream at Flitwick's hands, saw Walden Mac­nair thrown across the room by Ha­grid, hit the stone wall op­po­site, and slide un­con­scious to the ground. He saw Ron and Neville bring­ing down Fen­rir Grey­back. Aber­forth Stun­ning Rook­wood, Arthur and Per­cy floot­ing Thick­nesse, and Lu­cius and Nar­cis­sa Mal­foy run­ning through the crowd, not even at­tempt­ing to fight, scream­ing for their son.

Volde­mort was now du­el­ing McG­ona­gall, Slughorn, Kings­ley all at once, and there was a cold ha­tred in his face as they wove and ducked around him, un­able to fin­ish him -

Bel­la­trix was still figh­ing too, fifty yards away from Volde­mort, and like her mas­ter she du­eled three at once: Hermione, Gin­ny and Lu­na, all bat­tling their hard­est, but Bel­la­trix was equal to them, and Har­ry's at­ten­tion was di­vert­ed as a Killing Curse shot so close to Gin­ny that she missed death by an inch -

He changed course, run­ning at Bel­la­trix rather than Volde­mort, but be­fore he had gone a few steps he was knocked side­ways.

“NOT MY DAUGH­TER, YOU BITCH!”

Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran, free­ing her arms, Bel­la­trix spun on the spot, roar­ing with laugh­ter at the sight of the new chal­lenger.

“OUT OF MY WAY!” shout­ed Mrs. Weasley to the three girls, and with a sim­ple swipe of her wand she be­gan to du­el. Har­ry watched with ter­ror and ela­tion as Mol­ly Weasley's wand slashed and twist­ed, and Bel­la­trix Lestrange's smile fal­tered and be­came a snarl. Jets of light flew from both wands, the floor around the with­ces' feet be­came bot and cracked; both wom­an were fight­ing to kill.

“No!” Mrs. Weasley cried as a few stu­dents ran for­ward, try­ing to come to her aid. “Get back! Get back! She is mine!”

Hun­dreds of peo­ple now lined the walls, watch­ing the two fights, Volde­mort and his three op­po­nents, Bel­la­trix and Mol­ly, and Har­ry stood, in­vis­ible, torn be­tween both, want­ing to at­tack and yet to pro­tect, un­able to be sure that he would not hit the in­no­cent.

“What will hap­pen to your chil­dren when I've killed you?” taunt­ed Bel­la­trix, as mad as her mas­ter, ca­per­ing as Mol­ly's curs­es danced around her. “When Mum­my's gone the same way as Fred­die?”

“You - will - nev­er - touch - our - chil­dren - again!” screamed Mrs. Weasley.

Bel­la­trix laughed the same ex­hil­arat­ed laugh her cousin Sir­ius had giv­en as he top­pled back­ward through the veil, and sud­den­ly Har­ry knew what was go­ing to hap­pen be­fore it did.

Mol­ly's curse soared be­neath Bel­la­trix's con­streched arm and hit her square­ly in the chest, di­rect­ly over her heart.

Bel­la­trix's glount­ing smile froze, her eyes seemd to bulge: For the tini­est space of time she knew what had hap­pened, and then she top­pled, and the watch­ing crowd roared, and Volde­mord screamed.

Har­ry felt as though he turned in­to slow motin: he saw McG­ona­gall, Kings­ley and Slughorn blast­ed back­ward, flail­ing and writhing through the air, as Volde­mort's fury at the fall of his last, best leu­tenant ex­plod­ed with the force of a bomb, Volde­mort raised his wand and di­rect­ed it at Mol­ly Weasley.

“Pro­tego!” roared Har­ry, and the Shield Charm ex­pand­ed in the mid­dle of the Hall, and Volde­mort stared around for the source as Har­ry pulled off the In­vis­ibil­ity Cloak at last.

The yell of shock, the cheers, the screams on ev­ery side of :“Har­ry!” “HE'S ALIVE!” were sti­fled at once. The crowd was afraid, and si­lence fell abrupt­ly and com­plete­ly as Volde­mort and Har­ry looked at each oth­er, and be­gan, at the same mo­ment, to cir­cle each oth­er.

“I don't want any­one else to help,” Har­ry said loud­ly, and in the to­tal si­lence his voice car­ried like a trum­pet call. “It's got to be like this. It's got to be me.”

Volde­mort hissed.

“Pot­ter doesn't mean that,” he said, his red eyes wide. “This isn't how he works, is it? Who are you go­ing to use as a shield to­day, Pot­ter?”

“No­body,” said Har­ry sim­ply. “There are no more Hor­crux­es. It's just you and me. Nei­ther can live while the oth­er sur­vives, and one of us is about to leave for good. . . .”

“One of us?” jeered Volde­mort, and his wholy body was taut and his red eyes stared, a snake that was about to strike. “You think it will be you, do you, the boy who has sur­vived by ac­ci­dent, and be­cause Dum­ble­dore was pulling the strings?”

“Ac­ci­dent, was it, when my moth­er died to save me?” asked Har­ry. They were still mov­ing side­ways, both of them, in that per­fect cir­cle, main­tain­ing the same dis­tance from each oth­er, and for Har­ry no face ex­ist­ed but Volde­mort's. “Ac­ci­dent, when I de­cid­ed to fight in that grave­yard? Ac­ci­dent, that I didn't de­fend my­self tonight, and still sur­vived, and re­turned to fight again?”

“Ac­ci­dents!” screamed Volde­mort, but still he did not strike, and the watch­ing crowd was frozen as if Pet­ri­fied, and of the hun­dreds in the Hall, no­body seemed to breathe but they two. “Ac­ci­dent and chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled be­hind the skirts of greater men and wom­en, and per­mit­ted me to kill them for you!”

“You won't be killing any­one else tonight,” said Har­ry as they cir­cled, and stared in­to each oth­er's eyes, green in­to red. “You won't be able to kill any of them ev­er again. Don't you get it? I was ready to die to stop you from hurt­ing these peo­ple - ”

“But you did not!”

“ - I meant to, and that's what did it. I've done what my moth­er did. They're pro­tect­ed from you. Haven't you no­ticed how none of the spells you put on them are bind­ing? You can't tor­ture them. You can't touch them. You don't learn from your mis­takes, Rid­dle, do you?”

“You dare -”

“Yes, I dare,” said Har­ry. “I know things you don't know, Tom Rid­dle. I know lots of im­por­tant things that you don't. Want to hear some, be­fore you make an­oth­er big mis­take?”

Volde­mort did not speak, but powled in a cir­cle, and Har­ry knew that he kept him tem­porar­ily mes­mer­ized at bay, held back by the faintest pos­si­bil­ity that Har­ry might in­deed know a fi­nal se­cret. . . .

“Is it love again?” said Volde­mort, his snake's face jeer­ing. “Dum­ble­dore fa­vorite so­lu­tion, love, which he claimed con­qered death, though love did not stop him falling from the tow­er and break­ing like and old wax­work? Love, which did not pre­vent me stamp­ing out your Mod­blood moth­er like a cock­roack, Pot­ter - and no­body seems to love you enough to run for­ward this time and take my curse. So what will stop you dy­ing now when I strike?”

“Just one thing,” said Har­ry, and still they cir­cled each oth­er, wrapped in each oth­er, held apart by noth­ing but the last se­cret.

“If it is not love that will save you this time,” said Volde­mort, “you must be­lieve that you have mag­ic that i do not, or else a weapon more pow­er­ful than mine?”

“I be­lieve both,” said Har­ry, and he saw shock flit across the snake­like face, though it was in­stant­ly dis­pelled; Volde­mort be­gan to laugh, and the sound was more fright­en­ing than his screams; hu­mor­les and in­sane, it echoed around the silent Hall.

“You think you know more mag­ic than I do?” he said. “Than I, than Lord Volde­mort, who has per­formed mag­ic that Dum­ble­dore him­self nev­er dreamed of?”

“Oh he dreamed of it,” said Har­ry, “but he knew more than you, knew enough not to do what you've done.”

“You mean he was weak!” screamed Volde­mort. “Too weak to dare, too weak to take what might have been his, what will be mine!”

“No, he was clev­er­er than you,” said Har­ry, “a bet­ter wiz­ard, a bet­ter man.”

“I brought about the death of Al­bus Dum­ble­dore!”

“You thought you did,” said Har­ry, “but you were wrong.”

For the frist time, the watch­ing crowd stirred as the hun­dreds of peo­ple around the walls drew breath as one.

“Dum­ble­dore is dead!” Volde­mort hurled the words at Har­ry as in the mar­ble tomb in the grounds of this cas­tle, I have seen it, Pot­ter, and he will not re­turn!"

“Yes, Dum­ble­dore is dead,” said Har­ry calm­ly, “but you didn't have him killed. He chose his own man­ner of dy­ing, chose it months be­fore he died, ar­ranged the whole thing with the man you thought was your ser­vant.”

“What chld­ish dream is this?” said Volde­mort, but still he did not strike, and his red eyes did not wa­ver from Har­ry's.

“Severus Snape wasn't yours,” said Har­ry. “Snape was Dum­ble­dore's. Dum­ble­dore's from the mo­ment you start­ing hunt­ing down my moth­er. And you nev­er re­al­ized it, be­cause of the thing you can't un­der­stand. You nev­er saw Snape cast a Pa­tronus, did you, Rid­dle?”

Volde­mort did not an­swer. They con­tin­ued to cir­cle each oth­er like wolves about to tear each oth­er apart.

“Snape's Pa­tronus was a doe,” said Har­ry, “the same as my moth­er's, be­cause he loved her for near­ly all of his life, from the time when they were chil­dren. You should have re­al­ized,” he said as he saw Volde­mort's nos­trils flare, “he asked you to spare her life, didn't he?” “He de­sired her, that was all,” sneered Volde­mort, “but when she had gone, he agreed that there were oth­er wom­en, and of pur­er blood, worhi­er of him - ”

“Of course he told you that,” said Har­ry, “but he was Dum­ble­dore's spy from the mo­ment you threat­ened her, and he's been work­ing against you ev­er since! Dum­ble­dore was al­ready dy­ing when Snape fin­ished him!”

“It mat­ters not!” shrieked Volde­mort, who had fol­lowed ev­ery word with rapt at­ten­tion, but now let out a cack­le of mad laugh­ter. "It mat­ters not whether Snape was mine or Dum­ble­dore's, or what pet­ty ob­sta­cles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them as I crushed your moth­er, Snape's sup­posed great love! Oh, but it all makes sense, Pot­ter, and in ways that you do not un­der­stand!

“Dum­ble­dore was try­ing to keep the El­der Wand from me! He in­tend­ed that Snape should be the true mas­ter of the wand! But I got there ahead of you, lit­tle boy - I reached the wand be­fore you could get your hands on it, I un­der­stood the truth be­fore you caught up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago, and the El­der Wand, the Death­stick, the Wand of Des­tiny is tru­ly mine! Dum­ble­dore's last plan went wrong, Har­ry Pot­ter!”

“Yeah, it did.” said Har­ry. “You're right. But be­fore you try to kill me, I'd ad­vise you think what you've done . . . . Think, and try for some re­morse, Rid­dle. . . .”

“What is this?”

Of all the things that Har­ry had said to him, be­yond any rev­ela­tion or taunt, noth­ing had socked Volde­mort like this. Har­ry saw is pupils con­tract to thin slits, saw the skin around his eyes whiten.

“It's your one last chance,” said Har­ry, “it's all you've got left. . . . I've seen what you'll be oth­er­wise. . . . Be a man. . . try. . . Try for some re­morse. . . .”

“You dare --- ?” said Volde­mort again.

“Yes, I dare,” said Har­ry, “be­cause Dum­ble­dore’s last plan hasn’t back­fired on me at all. It’s back­fired on you, Rid­dle.”

Volde­mort’s hand was trem­bling on the El­der Wand, and Har­ry gripped Dra­co’s very tight­ly. The mo­ment, he knew, was sec­onds away.

“That wand still isn’t work­ing prop­er­ly for you be­cause you mur­dered the wrong per­son. Severus Snape was nev­er the true mas­ter of the El­der Wand. He nev­er de­feat­ed Dum­ble­dore.”

“He killed --- ”

“Aren’t you lis­ten­ing? Snape nev­er beat Dum­ble­dore! Dum­ble­dore’s death was planned be­tween them! Dum­ble­dore in­stend­ed to die, un­de­feat­ed, the wand’s last true mas­ter! If all had gone as planned, the wand’s pow­er would have died with him, be­cause it had nev­er been won from him!”

“But then, Pot­ter, Dum­ble­dore as good as gave me the wand!” Volde­mort’s voice shook with ma­li­cious plea­sure. “I stole the wand from its last mas­ter’s tomb! I re­moved it against the last mas­ter’s wish­es! Its pow­er is mine!”

“You still don’t get it, Rid­dle, do you? Pos­sess­ing the wand isn’t enough! Hold­ing it, us­ing it, doesn’t make it re­al­ly yours. Didn’t you lis­ten to Ol­li­van­der? The wand choos­es the wiz­ard . . . The El­der Wand rec­og­nized a new mas­ter be­fore Dum­ble­dore died, some­one who nev­er even laid a hand on it. The new mas­ter re­moved the wand from Dum­ble­dore against his will, nev­er re­al­iz­ing ex­act­ly what he had done, or that the world’s most dan­ger­ous wand had giv­en him its al­le­giance . . .”

Volde­mort’s chest rose and fell rapid­ly, and Har­ry could feel the curse com­ing, feel it build­ing in­side the wand point­ed at his face.

“The true mas­ter of the El­der Wand was Dra­co Mal­foy.”

Blank shock showed in Volde­mort’s face for a mo­ment, but then it was gone.

“But what does it mat­ter?” he said soft­ly. “Even if you are right, Pot­ter, it makes no dif­fer­ence to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We du­el on skill alone . . . and af­ter I have killed you, I can at­tend to Dra­co Mal­foy . . .”

“But you’re too late,” said Har­ry. “You’ve missed your chance. I got there first. I over­pow­ered Dra­co weeks ago. I took his wand from him.”

Har­ry twitched the hawthorn wand, and he felt the eyes of ev­ery­one in the Hall up­on it.

“So it all comes down to this, doesn’t it?” whis­pered Har­ry. “Does the wand in your hand know its last mas­ter was Dis­armed? Be­cause if it does . . . I am the true mas­ter of the El­der Wand.”

A red-​glow burst sud­den­ly across the en­chant­ed sky above them as an edge of daz­zling sun ap­peared over the sill of the near­est win­dow. The light hit both of their faces at the same time, so that Volde­mort’s was sud­den­ly a flam­ing blur. Har­ry heard the high voice shriek as he too yelled his best hope to the heav­ens, point­ing Dra­co’s wand:

“Ava­da Ke­davra!”

“Ex­pel­liar­mus!”

The bang was like a can­non blast, and the gold­en flames that erupt­ed be­tween them, at the dead cen­ter of the cir­cle they had been tread­ing, marked the point where the spells col­lid­ed. Har­ry saw Volde­mort’s green jet meet his own spell, saw the El­der Wand fly high, dark against the sun­rise, spin­ning across the en­chant­ed ceil­ing like the head of Nagi­ni, spin­ning through the air to­ward the mas­ter it would not kill, who had come to take full pos­ses­sion of it at last. And Har­ry, with the unerring skill of the Seek­er, caught the wand in his free hand as Volde­mort fell back­ward, arms splayed, the slit pupils of the scar­let eyes rolling up­ward. Tom Rid­dle hit the floor with a mun­dane fi­nal­ity, his body fee­ble and shrunk­en, the white hands emp­ty, the snake­like face va­cant and un­know­ing. Volde­mort was dead, killed by his own re­bound­ing curse, and Har­ry stood with two wands in his hand, star­ing down at his en­emy’s shell.

One shiv­er­ing sec­ond of si­lence, the shock of the mo­ment sus­pend­ed: and then the tu­mult broke around Har­ry as the screams and the cheers and the roars of the watch­ers rent the air. The fierce new sun daz­zled the win­dows as they thun­dered to­ward him, and the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione, and it was their arms that were wrapped around him, their in­com­pre­hen­si­ble shouts that deaf­ened him. The Gin­ny, Neville, and Lu­na were there, and then all the Weasleys and Ha­grid, and Kings­ley and McG­ona­gall and Flitwick and Sprout, and Har­ry could not hear a word that any­one was shout­ing, not tell whose hands were seiz­ing him, pulling him, try­ing to hug some part of him, hun­dreds of them press­ing in, all of them de­ter­mined to touch the Boy Who Lived, the rea­son it was over at last ---

The sun rose steadi­ly over Hog­warts, and the Great Hall blazed with life and light. Har­ry was an in­dis­pen­si­ble part of the min­gled out­pour­ings of ju­bi­la­tion and mourn­ing, of grief and cel­ebra­tion. They want­ed him there with them, their lead­er and sym­bol, their sav­ior and their guide, and that he had not slept, that he craved the com­pa­ny of on­ly a few of them, seemed to oc­cur to no one. He must speak to the be­reaved, clasp their hands, wit­ness their tears, re­ceive their thanks, hear the news now creep­ing in from ev­ery quar­ter as the morn­ing drew on; that the Im­periused up and down the coun­try had come back to them­selves, that Death Eaters were flee­ing or else be­ing cap­tured, that the in­no­cent of Azk­aban were be­ing re­leased at that very mo­ment, and that Kings­ley Shack­le­bolt had been named tem­po­rary Min­is­ter of Mag­ic.

They moved Volde­mort’s body and laid it in a cham­ber off the Hall, away form the bod­ies of Fred, Tonks, Lupin, Col­in Creevey, and fifty oth­ers who had died fight­ing him. McG­ona­gall had re­placed the House ta­bles, not no­body was sit­ting ac­cord­ing to House any­more: All were jum­bled to­geth­er, teach­ers and pupils, ghosts and par­ents, cen­taurs and house-​elves, and Firen­ze lay re­cov­er­ing in the cor­ner, and Grawp peered in through a smashed win­dow, and peo­ple were throw­ing food in­to his laugh­ing mouth. Af­ter a while, ex­haust­ed and drained, Har­ry found him­self sit­ting on a bench be­side Lu­na.

“I’d want some peace and qui­et, if it were me,” she said.

“I’d love some,” he replied.

“I’ll dis­tract them all,” she said. “Use your cloak.”

And be­fore he could say a word, she had cried, “Oooh, look, a Blib­ber­ing Humdinger!” and point­ed out the win­dow. Ev­ery­one who heard looked around, and Har­ry slid the Cloak up over him­self, and got to his feet.

Now he could move through the Hall with­out in­ter­fer­ence. He spot­ted Gin­ny two ta­bles away; she was sit­ting with her head on her moth­er’s shoul­der: There would be time to talk lat­er, hours and days and maybe years in which to talk. He saw Neville, the sword of Gryffind­or ly­ing be­side his plate as he ate, sur­round­ed by a knot of fer­vent ad­mir­ers. Along the aisle be­tween the ta­bles he walked, and he spot­ted the three Mal­foys, hud­dled to­geth­er as though un­sure whether or not they were sup­posed to be there, but no­body was pay­ing them any at­ten­tion. Ev­ery­where he looked, he saw fam­ilies re­unit­ed, and fi­nal­ly, he saw the two whose com­pa­ny he craved most.

“It’s me,” he mut­tered, crouch­ing down be­tween them. “Will you come with me?”

They stood up at once, and to­geth­er he, Ron and Hermione left the Great Hall. Great chunks were miss­ing from the mar­ble stair­case, part of the balustrade gone, and rub­ble and blood­stains oc­curred ev­er few steps as their climbed.

Some­where in the dis­tance they could hear Peeves zoom­ing through the cor­ri­dors singing a vic­to­ry song of his own com­po­si­tion:



We did it, we bashed them, wee Pot­ter’s the one,

And Voldy’s gone moldy, so now let’s have fun!



“Re­al­ly gives a feel­ing for the scope and tragedy of the thing, doesn’t it?” said Ron, push­ing open a door to let Har­ry and Hermione through.

Hap­pi­ness would come, Har­ry though, but at the mo­ment it was muf­fled by ex­haus­tion, and the pain of los­ing Fred and Lupin and Tonks pierced him like a phys­ical wound ev­ery few steps. Most of all he felt the most stu­pen­dous re­lief, and a long­ing to sleep. But first he owed an ex­pla­na­tion to Ron and Hermione, who had stuck with him for so long, and who de­served the truth. Painstak­ing­ly he re­count­ed what he had seem in the Pen­sieve and what had hap­pened in the for­est, and they had not even be­gun to ex­press all their shock and amaze­ment, when at last they ar­rived at the place to which they had been walk­ing, though none of them had men­tioned their des­ti­na­tion.

Since he had last seen it, the gar­goyle guard­ing the en­trance to the head­mas­ter’s study had been knocked aside; it stood lop­sid­ed, look­ing a lit­tle punch-​drunk, and Har­ry won­dered whether it would be able to dis­tin­guish pass­words any­more.

“Can we go up?” he asked the gar­goyle.

“Feel free,” groaned the stat­ue.

They clam­bered over him and on­to the spi­ral stone stair­case that moved slow­ly up­ward like an es­ca­la­tor. Har­ry pushed open the door at the top.

He had one, brief glimpse of the stone Pen­sieve on the desk where he had left it, and then an ear­split­ting noise made him cry out, think­ing of curs­es and re­turn­ing Death Eaters and the re­birth of Volde­mort ---

But it was ap­plause. All around the walls, the head­mas­ters and head­mistress­es of Hog­warts were giv­ing him a stand­ing ova­tion; they waved their hats and in some cas­es their wigs, they reached through their frames to grip each oth­er’s hands; they danced up and down on their chairs in which they have been paint­ed: Dilys Der­went sobbed unashamed­ly; Dex­ter Fortes­cue was wav­ing his ear-​trum­pet; and Phineas Niggelus called, in his high, reedy voice, “And let it be not­ed that Slytherin House played its part! Let our con­tri­bu­tion not be for­got­ten!”

But Har­ry had eyes on­ly for the man who stood in the largest por­trait di­rect­ly be­hind the head­mas­ter’s chair. Tears were slid­ing down from be­hind the half-​moon spec­ta­cles in­to the long sil­ver beard, and the pride and the grat­itude em­anat­ing from him filled Har­ry wit h the same balm as phoenix song.

At last, Har­ry held up his hands, and the por­traits fell re­spect­ful­ly silent, beam­ing and mop­ping their eyes and wait­ing ea­ger­ly for him to speak. He di­rect­ed his words at Dum­ble­dore, how­ev­er, and chose them with enor­mous care. Ex­haust­ed and bleary-​eyed though he was, he must make one last ef­fort, seek­ing one last piece of ad­vice.

“The thing that was hid­den in the Snitch,” he be­gan, “I dropped it in the for­est. I don’t ex­act­ly here, but I’m not go­ing to go look­ing for it again. Do you agree?”

“My dear boy, I do,” said Dum­ble­dore, while his fel­low pic­tures looked con­fused and cu­ri­ous. “A wise and coura­geous de­ci­sion, but no less than I would have ex­pect­ed of you. Does any­one know else know where it fell?”

“No one,” said Har­ry, and Dum­ble­dore nod­ded his sat­is­fac­tion.

“I’m go­ing to keep Ig­no­tus’s present, though,” said Har­ry, and Dum­ble­dore beamed.

“But of course, Har­ry, it is yours for­ev­er, un­til you pass it on!”

“And then there’s this.”

Har­ry held up the El­der Wand, and Ron and Hermione looked at it with a rev­er­ence that, even in his be­fud­dled and sleep-​de­prived state, Har­ry did not like to see.

“I don’t want it.” said Har­ry.

“What?” said Ron loud­ly. “Are you men­tal?”

“I know it’s pow­er­ful,” said Har­ry weari­ly. “But I was hap­pi­er with mine. So . . .”

He rum­maged in the pouch hung around his neck, and pulled out the two halves of hol­ly tstill just con­nect­ed by the finest threat of phoenix feath­er. Hermione had said that they could not be re­paired, that the dam­age was too se­vere. All he knew was that if this did not work, noth­ing would.

He laid the bro­ken wand up­on the head­mas­ter’s desk, touched it with the very tip of the El­der Wand, and said, “Reparo.”

As his wand re­sealed, red sparks flew out of its end. Har­ry knew that he had suc­ceed­ed. He picked up the hol­ly and phoenix wand and felt a sud­den warmth in his fin­gers, as though wand and hand were re­joic­ing at their re­union.

“I’m putting the El­der Wand,” he told Dum­ble­dore, who was watch­ing him with enor­mous af­fec­tion and ad­mi­ra­tion, “back where it came from. It can stay there. If I die a nat­ural death like Ig­no­tus, its pow­er will be bro­ken, won’t it? The pre­vi­ous mas­ter will nev­er have been de­feat­ed. That’ll be the end of it.

Dum­ble­dore nod­ded. They smiled at each oth­er.

“Are you sure?” said Ron. There was the faintest trace of long­ing in his voice as he looked at the El­der Wand.

“I think Har­ry’s right,” said Hermione qui­et­ly.

“That wand’s more trou­ble than it’s worth.” said Har­ry. “And quite hon­est­ly,” he turned away from the paint­ed por­traits, think­ing now on­ly of the four-​poster bed ly­ing wait­ing for him in Gryffind­or Tow­er, and won­der­ing whether Kreach­er might bring him a sand­wich there, “I’ve had enough trou­ble for a life­time.”





EPI­LOGUE

Nine­teen Years Lat­er

Au­tumn seemed to ar­rive sud­den­ly that year. The morn­ing of the first of Septem­ber was crisp as an ap­ple, and as the lit­tle fam­ily bobbed across the rum­bling road to­ward the great sooty sta­tion, the fumes of car ex­hausts and the breath of pedes­tri­ans sparkled like cob­webs in the cold air. Two large cages tat­tled on top of the laden trol­leys the par­ents were push­ing; the owls in­side them hoot­ed in­dig­nant­ly, and the red­head­ed girl trailed fear­ful­ly be­hind here broth­ers, clutch­ing her fa­ther's arm.

“It won't be long, and you'll be go­ing too,” Har­ry told her.

“Two years,” sniffed Lily. “I want to go now!”

The com­muters stared cu­ri­ous­ly at the owls as the fam­ily wove its way to­ward the bar­ri­er be­tween plat­forms nine and ten, Al­bus's voice drift­ed back to Har­ry over the sur­round­ing clam­or; his sons had re­sumed the ar­gu­ment they had start­ed in the car.

“I won't! I won't be a Slytherin!”

“James, give it a rest!” said Gin­ny.

“I on­ly said he might be,” said James, grin­ning at his younger broth­er. “There's noth­ing wrong with that. He might be in Slytherin”

But James caught his moth­er's eye and fell silent. The five Pot­ters ap­proached the bar­ri­er. With a slight­ly cocky look over his shoul­der at his younger broth­er, James took the trol­ley from his moth­er and broke in­to a run. A mo­ment lat­er, he had van­ished.

“You'll write to me, won't you?” Al­bus asked his par­ents im­me­di­ate­ly, cap­ital­iz­ing on the mo­men­tary ab­sence of his broth­er.

“Ev­ery day, of you want us to,” said Gin­ny.

“Not ev­ery day,” said Al­bus quick­ly, “James says most peo­ple on­ly get let­ters from home about once a month.”

“We wrote to James three times a week last year,” said Gin­ny.

“And you don't want to be­lieve ev­ery­thing he tells you about Hog­warts,” Har­ry put in. “He likes a laugh, your broth­er.”

Side by side, they pushed the sec­ond trol­ley for­ward, gath­er­ing speed. As they reached the bar­ri­er, Al­bus winced, but no col­li­sion came. In­stead, the fam­ily emerged on­to plat­form nine and three-​quar­ters, which was ob­scured by thick white steam that was pour­ing from the scar­let Hog­warts Ex­press. In­dis­tinct fig­ures were swarm­ing through the mist, in­to which James had al­ready dis­ap­peared.

“Where are they?” asked Al­bus anx­ious­ly, peer­ing at the hazy forms they passed as they made their way down the plat­form.

“We'll find them,” said Gin­ny re­as­sur­ing­ly.

But the va­por was dense, and it was dif­fi­cult to make out any­body's faces. De­tached from their own­ers, voic­es sound­ed un­nat­ural­ly loud, Har­ry thought he head Per­cy dis­cours­ing loud­ly on broom­stick reg­ula­tions, and was quite glad of the ex­cuse not to stop and say hel­lo. . . .

“I think that's them, Al,” said Gin­ny sud­den­ly.

A group of four peo­ple emerged from the mist, stand­ing along­side the very last car­riage. Their faces on­ly came in­to fo­cus when Har­ry, Gin­ny, Lily, and Al­bus had drawn right up to them.

“Hi,” said Al­bus, sound­ing im­mense­ly re­lieved.

Ros­es, who was al­ready wear­ing her brand-​new Hog­warts robes, beamed at him.

“Parked all right, then?” Ron asked Har­ry. “I did. Hermione didn't be­lieve I could pass a Mug­gle driv­ing test, did you? She thought I'd have to Con­found the ex­am­in­er.”

“No, I didn't,” said Hermione, “I had com­plete faith in you.”

“As a mat­ter of fact, I did Con­fund him,” Ron whis­pered to Har­ry, as to­geth­er they lift­ed Al­bus's trunk and owl on­to the train. “I on­ly for­got to look in the wing mir­ror, and let's face it, I can use a Su­per­sen­so­ry Charm for that.”

Back on the plat­form, they found Lily and Hugo, Rose's younger broth­er, hav­ing an an­imat­ed dis­cus­sion about which House they would be sort­ed in­to when they fi­nal­ly went to Hog­warts.

“If you're not in Gryffind­or, we'll dis­in­her­it you,” said Ron, “but no pres­sure.”

“Ron!”

Lily and Hugo laughed, but Al­bus and Rose looked solemn.

“He doesn't mean it,” said Hermione and Gin­ny, but Ron was no longer pay­ing at­ten­tion. Catch­ing Har­ry's eye, he nod­ded covert­ly to a point some fifty yards away. The steam had thinned for a mo­ment, and three peo­ple stood in sharp re­lief against the shift­ing mist.

“Look who it is.”

Dra­co Mal­foy was stand­ing there with his wife and son, a dark coat but­toned up to his throat. His hair was re­ced­ing some­what, which em­pha­sized the point­ed chin. The new boy re­sem­bled Dra­co as much as Al­bus re­sem­bled Har­ry. Dra­co caught sight of Har­ry, Ron, Hermione, and Gin­ny star­ing at him, nod­ded curt­ly, and turned away again.

“So that's lit­tle Scor­pius,” said Ron un­der his breath. “Make sure you beat him in ev­ery test, Rosie. Thank God you in­her­it­ed your moth­er's brains.”

“Ron, for heav­en's sake,” said Hermione, half stern, half amused. “Don't try to turn them against each oth­er be­fore they've even start­ed school!”

“You're right, sor­ry,” said Ron, but un­able to help him­self, he added, “Don't get too friend­ly with him, though, Rosie. Grand­dad Weasley would nev­er for­give you if you mar­ried a pure­blood.”

“Hey!”

James had reap­peared; he had di­vest­ed him­self of his trunk, owl, and trol­ley, and was ev­ident­ly burst­ing with news.

“Ted­dy's back there,” he said breath­less­ly, point­ing back over his shoul­der in­to the bil­low­ing clouds of steam. “Just seen him! And guess what he's do­ing? Snog­ging Vic­toire!”

He gazed up at the adults, ev­ident­ly dis­ap­point­ed by the lack of re­ac­tion.

“Our Ted­dy! Ted­dy Lupin! Snog­ging our Vic­toire! Our cousin! And I asked ted­dy what he was do­ing --”

“You in­ter­rupt­ed them?” said Gin­ny. “You are so like Ron --”

“-- and he said he'd come to see her off! And then he told me to go away. He's snog­ging her!” James added as though wor­ried he had not made him­self clear.

“Oh, it would be love­ly if they got mar­ried!” whis­pered Lily ec­stat­ical­ly. “Ted­dy would re­al­ly be part of the fam­ily then!”

“He al­ready comes round for din­ner about four times a week,” said Har­ry “Why don't we just in­vite him to live with is and have done with it?”

“Yeah!” said James en­thu­si­as­ti­cal­ly. “I don't mind shar­ing with Al--Ted­dy could have my room!”

“No,” said Har­ry firm­ly, “you and Al will share a room on­ly when I want the house de­mol­ished.”

He checked the bat­tered old watch that had once been Fabi­an Prewett's.

“It's near­ly eleven, you'd bet­ter get on board.”

“Don't for­get to give Neville our love!” Gin­ny told James as she hugged him.

“Mum! I can't give a pro­fes­sor love!”

“But you know Neville--”

James rolled his eyes.

“Out­side, yeah, but at school he's Pro­fes­sor Long­bot­tom, isn't he? I can't walk in­to Her­bol­ogy and give him love. . . .”

Shak­ing his head at his moth­er's fool­ish­ness, he vent­ed his feel­ings by aim­ing a kick at Al­bus.

“See you lat­er, Al. Watch out for the thes­trals.”

“I thought they were in­vis­ible? You said they were in­vis­ible!”

but James mere­ly laughed, per­mit­ted his moth­er to kiss him, gave his fa­ther a fleet­ing hug, then leapt on­to the rapid­ly fill­ing train. They saw him wave, then sprint away up the cor­ri­dor to find his friends.

“Thes­trals are noth­ing to wor­ry about,” Har­ry told Al­bus. “They're gen­tle things, there's noth­ing scare about them. Any­way, you won't be go­ing up to school in the car­riages, you'll be go­ing in the boats.”

Gin­ny kissed Al­bus good-​bye.

“See you at Christ­mas.”

“Bye, Al,” said Har­ry as his son hugged him. “Don't for­get Ha­grid's in­vit­ed you to tea next Fri­day. Don't mess with Peeves. Don't du­el any­one till you're learned how. And don't let James wind you up.”

“What if I'm in Slytherin?”

The whis­per was for his fa­ther alone, and Har­ry knew that on­ly the mo­ment of de­par­ture could have forced Al­bus to re­veal how great and sin­cere that fear was.

Har­ry crouched down so that Al­bus's face was slight­ly above his own. Alone of Har­ry's three chil­dren, Al­bus had in­her­it­ed Lily's eyes.

“Ablus Severus,” Har­ry said qui­et­ly, so that no­body but Gin­ny could hear, and she was tact­ful enough to pre­tend to be wav­ing to rose, who was now on the train, “you were named for two head­mas­ters of Hog­warts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was prob­ably the bravest man I ev­er knew.”

“But just say--”

“--then Slytherin House will have gained an ex­cel­lent stu­dent, won't it? It doesn't mat­ter to us, Al. But if it mat­ter to you, you'll be able to choose Gryffind­or over Slytherin. The Sort­ing Hat takes your choice in­to ac­count.”

“Re­al­ly?”

“It did for me,” said Har­ry.

He had nev­er told any of his chil­dren that be­fore, and he saw the won­der in Al­bus's face when he said it. But how the doorsr were slam­ming all along the scar­let train, and the blurred out­lines of par­ents swarm­ing for­ward for fi­nal kiss­es, last-​minute re­minders, Al­bus jumped in­to the car­riage and gin­ny closed the door be­hind him. Stu­dents were hang­ing from the win­dows near­est them. A great num­ber of faces, both on the train and off, seemed to be turned to­ward Har­ry.

“Why are they all star­ing?” de­mand­ed Al­bus as he and rose craned around to look at the oth­er stu­dents.

“Don't let it wor­ry you,” said Ron. “It's me, I'm ex­treme­ly fa­mous.”

Al­bus, Rose, Hugo, and Lily laughed. The train be­gan to more, and Har­ry walked along­side it, watch­ing his son's thin face, al­ready ablaze with ex­cite­ment. Har­ry kept smil­ing and wav­ing, even though it was like a lit­tle be­reave­ment, watch­ing his son glide away from him. . . .

The last trace of steam evap­orat­ed in the au­tumn air. The train round­ed a cor­ner. Har­ry's hand was still raised in farewell.

“He'll be al­right,” mur­mured Gin­ny.

As Har­ry looked dat her, he low­ered his hand ab­sent­mind­ed­ly and touched the light­ning scar on his fore­head.

“I know he will.”

The scar had not pained Har­ry for nine­teen years. All was well.



-The End-





